---
title: PLDI, EGRAPHS 2026 and Lifting EGraphs
date: 2026-06-20
---

Went to boulder, had nice time.

Got to chat with Max W, Max B, yihong, russell, pavel, zach, chris,

Stayed in the Adventure Lodge. Minus a strange night on Tuesday, had a good time. Accidentally, Ben Greenman stayed in the room with me, so got to meet him.

Got to see Austin, Amy, Astrid and Arwen. I see an "A" pattern.

Should've taken more pictures! DANGIT.

Got back and Ira was desparate for pets.

I was also surprised at some of a tiredness collapse at Sunday. I didn't really know I was burning the candle that hard. My model of my own body and mind continues to evolve.

I guess it's the same as always, but I had multiple conversations (basically if I ever wasn't talking to one of my egraph bros) on skepticism of the utility of e-graphs. I'm not a good defender of the faith. I am open to the possibility that it isn't useful. I am also open to the possibility that basically all activity at PLDI is not useful or that computers are not useful, or that money is that good for you, or that "useful" is a good metric of anything so I don't know that my lack of confidence is that indicting. If you're into screws, is there a defense of hammers?

I do worry and understand that the popularity of _anything_ at a particular time is community effects by definition, and communities are fickle and hype  driven. I like having a community of co-excited people, so it seems good to try and feed the thing to keep it interesting. New problems to solve, little bits of progress, benchmarks, scope widening.

I want the world to be simple and beautiful. That is the core of my desires that e-graphs is a facet of manifestation of. I think they reconcile data structures, a reasonable understandable problem/solution space, and mathematical semantics fairly nicely. I want compiler IRs to be more denotational (to the degree I care about compilers at all. They are neat, but conversely to the compiler people's interest in e-graphs, I am only interested in compilers because others are interested in them and want to use them, not so much for their intrinsic interestingness. When I retire, I might still tinker on logic. I am doubtful I will tinker on compilers. They hurt too much.)

microkb
microegg video
hyperreals in egraphs
system E
"cohomology of arithmetic" paper?

Knuckledragger.lean
leanpy import pypcode

Lie algerba for image composition siggraph pixar
iterated integrals

mcp lean is useful?

superblock egraphs
path from root as analysis

(Nat -> T, Nat) considered as validity frontier, not arrival time / start time.
eq a b == a.t == b.t /\ forall t, t <= a.t, a[t] = b[t]
le a b == a.t <= b.t /\ forall t, t <= a.t, a[t] = b[t]

undef value = different each time you read it?

version as a fat eid. Versions ~ baking in assume nodes / ite. bdds as eids with branches as constants. union(e1,e2,v)
is_equiv(e1,e2,v) is application

tuples + thinnings for rvsdgs / context mappings

zombie

```
class Theory
    def canon
    def unapply




class EGraph
    theory_fun : dict[str, unapply/canon]
    def register(self,  f : str, )
```

```
def integ(a,b):
    def res(f):
        return sum(f(random.rand(a,b)) for _ in range(N)) / N
    return res

def L(x,y):
    @integ(0,1)
    def t(x):
        @integ(0,x)
        def t1(y):
            return f + L(x,y)
```

# EGraphs 2026

# Cheng Fixpoints

# My talk

<https://www.youtube.com/live/hOtS_-7VAuQ?si=bmBlg7AiVe7Veqs5&t=3600>

# Predicate e-graphs

# AC 1

Really good talk.
Ephemeral enodes table for matching. Makes sense.

# semipersistent

# AC2

Thought. subst : (Vec<string, eid>, rewrite rules?)
The substitution represents it's entire cone.

# lunch

cheng asks about permutations.

Timing requirements.
Look at filament

I need to actually try and get thinning egraphs running

Pavel says modal twmporal logic in egraph? Adjoints?

# Eqsat vs stochastic search

same interface as egg.
Yea, is stoch search gonna eat lunch?
Cost function tuning.

Is there a library for this? Should there be? Maybe not.

I still think SES with caching so that rewrites can be untaken is kind of interesting. Maybe that's silly.

# instruction scheduling

kogge stone
"modulo scheduling"
ilp programming. A topological sort but only in the extaction phase. That's kind of a cool way of demanding acyclicy. Relationship to the instruction scheudling problems I was doing in vibes?

# asp

Special built in graph propagator
usc option turn on?

# ceres

# relational ematching

sundance

# e-stitch

# jiji modeling

#

# ACT tutorial

egraph huh?
<https://act-compiler.github.io/tutorials/pldi2026/>

# microegg

Pavel bullied max into doing a microegg walktrhough.
It was neat.

enodes_in_id   self.is_related()

wcoj version of pattern matching

def ematch_rec(pat, vars):

Would linear patterns do something interesintg

Could i return a _factorized substitution_  and then prcoess that in a factorized way on the right hand side

setdefault

def rewrite(self, rw : Rewrite)
    applies : tuple[int, Rhs, subst]
    for

# optimism

<https://www.youtube.com/live/oTbyLcKWpmg?si=cgBstwaYatj9spnU&t=23645>

system of equations comes from abstract interpretation

# Thursday

egraph proof assistant

Good jam sess with Russel and Max
versioned as baked in assume / ite / bdd struture eid

sidecar grind
sidecar isl for polyhedral compiler stuff?

hyperegraph nerd out at lunch

The hardware papers seemed interesting. String unification or thinnings for bitvector optimization?
I should do the minimal ssa superblock thing.

tuples + thinnings for rvsdg thalia

Nat -> T + validity frontier

fungible memory
micro
zombie

reify
reflect
register particular symbols.
Ephemeral enodes in

undef = different every time you read it.
