Quantum Hydrogen. Can I solve it using inverison (natrual variabl is
1/r)

Sommerfeld hodograph method?

strangely hydorgen orbitals are screened potential?

hydrogn euation in k-space k\^2 + 1/k\^2 \* =E

if we assume spherical symmettry 1/k\^2\* = integral rom 4 pi k2 volume
factor

Bohr sommerfled orbits. s states are most strethced. bringsw them closer
to nucleu, hence shieding lowrrs s state energy

In hydrgoen simulation, we'll only get bound states depdndaing on
boundary conditions. Near dirichlet or near neumann are bound-ish. TO
get any scattering\... maybe that's not true. Think of finite square
well. we'll get scattering . Bt there are ifnitne bound states in
hydrogen. How does that limit happen? High energy bound tstaes become
ininfitely far flung.

sepeartion of variables in matrices = simple intepretation factorization
of eiegensolution in kronecker product . but can I intepet in terms of
schur? effective potential due to anguar momentum.

spike has a point. isn't it fucked up that p orbitals have a direction?
once you pick a p robital, then thers fall cross-wise. spontaneous
symmettry breaking? the denisty matrix probably doesn't\... denisty
matrix is two l representations dotted onto each other, and the taking
the magnetic trace. this always gets you the spherically symmettric l=0
representation, i.e. the denisty matrix does not tranafrom under
rotations. (not even a phase\... well maybe a phase. berry?)

Orbital hybdriidzatio

Bond length vs energy splitting diagram

The parametzied charescterstic equation is universal. We could fill a
vector with all the eigenvalues and build a differential equation in the
parameter (first order pertubation theory)
$\frac{d\lambda}{dt}=F(\{\lambda\},t)$. Feynman hellman thoerem. Of
course, when they crash, we got issues.

descartess rule of signs applied?

The degenracy cplitting are strange monkey saddle points

what if I did one quantum electron and all the rest classical. My QSHO
coupled to CSHO problem. One quantum oscillator coupled to many
classical oscillators. Use random variables and quantum heisenberg. Use
classical field from distributed electron Can I find the ground state
from this? Continuous self measrumenet and collapse. Time dependant is
prbably better than time independant. With weak energy decay, there will
be some no ntrivial ground state.

Random variables and quantum heisenberg operators are the same thing.
Curious.The commutator is correlations? The denisty matrix as a random
variable. It is the random variable that takes on the porbability value
that things end up that way. Howdo you differentiate one random varibale
with respect to another? Point by point the ranodm variable x is not
correlated to p perhaps, but due to liouvilles thoerem, little boxes
cause correlation, dx, dp are correlated.

How do you add a hesenberg variable to a random variable?

Okay: OR we use all classical electron, but we couple them to radiate to
and receive zero point energy from the EM field in such a way as to be
blackbody consistent. The steady state energy or average energy will .
This is more akin to planck's picture of dynamics (actaully the
opposite. Planck wanted quanitzed material oscillators and conitnuous
EM) . The puts the quantumness in the EM field. Does quantumness spread
like a virus to the entire system or does it get diluted? I think long
term it spreads.

I think that in 1924 this would be an extremely attractive model for
hydrogen. Chunky blackbody which everybody agreed on.

Similarity to de broglie bohm? pilot waves = zero point EM, and
particles are particles.

Power in = power out. Match average radiation to. average work in.
Huydrogen can be solved in so many ways that i wouldn't be crazy
surpised if this works.

$$a^{2}=\hbar\omega v$$

Should a\^2 inlcude acceleration due to incoming light, ie thompson
scatterinbg? Perhaps. probably small correction though.

for many electrons, may have to include the correlations of wavlength
and distance for zero point light.

oscillatory light is too fast to effect. Low freqeuncy light is too weak
(DC would just tear it apart). light that matches the freqeuncy of
oscillation is just right.

What is classical One-particle green's function. Claim is its some kind
of dressed quasiparticle. maybe Dynamics with 1electron as variables and
all the rest stuffed into denisty function

$$\rho=\sum_{x_{i}\ne x_{j}}\delta(x-x_{i})$$

$$x_{j}$$

$$\ddot{x}_{j}=\int\frac{\rho}{r^{2}}$$

which does not conserve energy.

Hartree equation uses slef consistancy of movement of x and the
ditrubtion of $\rho$. If we select inital conditions from $\rho$ and
evolve, and then recollect what we find, we get back $\rho$. However, x
introduces fluctuations into rho as it moves along, so rho is not time
indepdnant in actuality.

Halfway between particle and field description

Well, the analog is typcially conisdering the dynamics of the 1-particle
distrubtion function from the total many particle distribution function.
But this 1-particle should come from some sort of undertlying dynmaics
or random variable.

With a random projection, what are the odds on goodness of vairtioan
lhamiltonian. Low energy? High energy?

In a finite crystal, the actual eiegnstates must be bloch waves turned
sine-like (or standing wave like). This is unhelpful for many
siutuations somehow. In the bulk, the epsonetial states are vetter.
Eigenstates aren't all that. What we want are states that are the most
reliable?

Difference between projection and schur is difference between
marginalization and conditionalization. This is true eaxactly for
gaussian distirubtions, but true conceptually as well. gassian
disgtrubtion over kronecker porduct space. The variables of integration
are not the indivudal makeup components of the kornecker porduct. That's
way too few, like hartee foc. We only get m\*N variables instead of
m\^N. (1+(m-1))\^N binoamial expansion. Expand full vector space into
cluster, closest porduct vector - 1 double cluster porduct + 1 triple
cluster product - etc

What is the real time version of the photon law $\hbar\omega=E$? The
electric field can do oly chunks of work at a time (hell no problem
there if we discretize time) If we fix dt, It does finite work Evdt.
Stimulated emission stimulated absorption and spontaneous emission
(radiation). That abrhama radiation stuff? Lorentz electron thoery.

dt is a cutoff in freqeuncy space.

The exact quantum couling device cannot be important.

Relation to BKS theory?

The idea of absorption (a process that occurs at a time or over a time)
and the idea of a photon having definite freqeuncy seem to be at odds
with each other.

Zero point energy tickles.

I have \<E E\> = $1/2\hbar\omega$, which tranasforms into the
autocreelation function.

Mean zero field with a given autocorrelation. What is expression for
ditribution of next value?

Fruier transform of planck ditirbution = planck autocrrelationn

ma=F+E

very debroglie bohm like. Except I'm not claiming pilot waves.

From a gviien autocrrelation we can make poredictions by setting the
observed values to get conditional probability. This is like integrating
the observed function w.r.t to autocrrelation function, then dividing by
the total autocrrelation i believe.

$i\epsilon$ weak coupling to environement limit - physical meaning. Use
the Zucker equation.

If I expand the expoential

$$Be^{-Dt}C=B(1+-Dt+)C$$

How do I get loss without return? Wait\... am I missing a term?\... No.
Maybe it is the nonhermiticity of A? No. A is hermitian if M is. If
reservoir is so large, for short times relative to traversal time of
exterior system, I get effectively loss with no return. Is that the BC
term? BDC term? Born series effective loss forcing term. Integrate by
parts to get in matrix espque form. And putting the weird integrla part
interm of partial t. Then we can iterate on that

$u=u$

$dv=Be^{Dt}C$

Could expand exposntietal and integrate by parts

put equation in integral form

$$\partial_{t}u=Au+\int Be^{-Dt}Cu$$

$$\partial_{t}u=Au+C+\int Be^{-Dt}Cu$$

$$\partial_{t}u=Au+C+\int(Be^{-Dt}-1)Cu$$

Sepearate into interior boundary and exterior. Differntial equation of
blocks of evolution operator in terms of blocks of ahmailtoinian. D-\> D
is S Matrix.

spaces I B E. The injection E-\>B is incoming I-\>B is outgoing.

I'm looking for radiation scattering decomposition.

Power Method is methematical meaning

Gaussian process, differences are uncorrelated, noty values themselves.
Inverse of autocorrelation matrix is tridiagonal.

exp$x\Sigma^{-1}x$

Wait\... I need to invert autocrrelation matrix? fuuuuuuuuck. Obivously
I hsould do that in frequncy domain. Is this what that wiener filter is
about?

Pade. Clearing fraction is key

The fundamental reccurrence

$$\frac{A_{n}}{B_{n}+\frac{a_{n+1}}{b_{n+1}+c}}=\frac{A_{n+1}}{B_{n+1}+c}$$

Clear all fractions

Multipying two polynoials is z-convolution. Pade approxiamtion could be
viewed as finding the best differentai operator + forcing term to
apprxoimate a given function.

$L[V]$ is funciontally parametzied operator. I wonder if that is a
useful persepctvie

The $\omega^{3}$ depdnance of eisnstein AB comes from 2 powers from
density of modes in box and 1 power from E\^ 2=omega from zero point
energy.
