Momentum equation

$\partial_{t}(\rho v)+v\cdot\nabla\rho v=f+\nabla p$

continuity

$\partial_{t}\rho+\nabla\cdot(v\rho)=0$

pressure equation

$p=f(\rho)$

vorticty

$\omega=\nabla\times v$

Velocity potential

$v=\nabla\phi$

The idea

$B\approx\omega$

$A\approx v$ (underlying flow) non potential flow

$\psi\approx\phi$

$H\approx p$ (energy per rho)

$p\approx u$ irrotational (perturbation)

$v/j\approx u$ total (perturbation)

Gauge transfromation = rearranging between potential flow and no
npotential flow

sound propagating paraxially down 2d flow

The gauge deirvative is quite similar to a covariant dierviative.
Paraxial Wave?

For paraxial hamiltonian optics canonical transfromation = change of
reference wave. If we conisder the xy planar slices to be a rfeference
plane wave, then we could change to using sphiercal waves from z0 or
something else. In this sense, abberation calculations correspond to the
interaction representation. Measuring relative to spherical (free
partciel, or perfect lens) wavefronts only includes the extra

1/23/13
-------

SPontaneuos broken symmettry - That the statistics of the system (ie the
hamiltonian) have a symmettry does not impyl that insstances have the
symmettry. It just means that symmettrically related insatnces had the
same a priori probability of occurring. Chicken poopoing on a roof has a
parity symmettry. 50 50 either way. But it DOES slide down one way. This
is the same issue as Declan's Problem to some degree. A random electric
field from random sources averages to zero, so how can there ever be
light? This means that one electric field vector is just as likekly as
another rotated, but it does not mean that electric field vectors occur.
Means values of distrubtions do not detemrine everything (mean field
thoery fails).

Inifnite volume/particle limit. Zeros from complex (unphysical ) values
of beta pinch the real axis leads to nonalytic behavior (phase
transition)

Can I do partition function with an impedance parameter? Impedance is a
kind of source thing. Impedance is relatedto fluctuation dissipation
theorem. Connect up impedance into a network. get effective impedance,
rescale.

Circulation lift theorem = Hall effect? Wing geometries maximize hall
effect? Kutta condition? Viscity is disspation, so one would think that
it is the diffusion constant that decays electron motion. Boundary layer
always exist for topologica reasons?

Barry phase in fluid flow - coriolis forces?

Adiabtic coriolis? action upon vorticity?

acoustize $\partial_{t}V+\omega\times v=-\nabla(v^{2}+p)$.

$dp=kd\rho$

$\partial_{t}\rho+\nabla\cdot\rho v=0$
