Conversion of autocrrelation function into a prediction

Wuantum field has hbar omega in its power spectral desntiy. Invert and
thaen fourier transform to get predictive function. This is A\^-1 B from
block notation. B being the inverse utocorrelation.

Discrete Ewald method / particle mesh - Break up into boxes. Use
particle particle interaction within box. Add up particles in box to get
denisty and use poisson equation to get potential due to those. Fuckig
beautiful Instead of using +1 -1 of gaussian to localize, you use
localized boxes.

$\frac{1}{r}=\frac{e^{-r}}{r}+(1-e^{-r})/r$ short range and long range.

DFT assumes eriodic boundary conditions. That s shit when we're trying
to apporixmate the fourier trnaasform same way particle in a box is crap
for continuum.

correlation carriers

What if I couple two quanumt hamornic oscillators via a classical
harmonic oscillator? I could remove the behavior of the classical
entirely by elimination. The strange manner in which I coupled quantum
to harmonic would be evident.

Use classical fields coupled to quantum fields, but then turn classical
denistiys back into histograms of particle denisties. Hubbard
stratonivich, steepest deascent, then particliziation.

using self coniststent field methods could be cast in this lioght. Using
classical EM field attached to quantum electrons. The dual system is
quantum EM attahed to classical electrons. Take classical field from
quantum distirubtion, then jiggle it according to zero point moition
(dual system). Better results from self consistant + jiggle than from
just self consistent?

Denisty of state matrix = denisty matrix with all states occupied =
obviously related to green's function\... Equals identity matrix? Trace
gives N. paramertzied by E gives energy projection matrix. Trace gives
sttes within range.

Taking a little loop in region that becomes branach cut\... ? Well, ou
always have to cross branch cut no matter where you put it. Therefore
take baby loop on either side of branch cut, Then you get the denisty of
staes in terms of Gr Ga. Huh.

$i\epsilon$ shoooses side of cnrach cut. Bachn cut loaction is not
arbitrary? Pole grabbing a little loop can approximate integral using
qudarature. If we can show qudrature gets better and better. Make loop
square and squashed so horzontal sides domiante vertical sides. Then we
get density of states pole grabber is Gr-Ga since this apporixmates the
pole grabing integral. Exchaging order of integration on k and E seems
like it must fail somehow. Conditonal convergence? Use box conditions to
show k integral gives what we need.

Density of states from green's functions. Going from pole grabber to
delta functions.

$$A(E)=\sum_{n}\delta(E-E_{n})=tr\int dt\int\frac{d\lambda e^{it(E-\lambda)}}{H-\lambda}=tr\int e^{-i(H-E)t}dt$$

COmbinging S-matrices

$$S=Schur(S_{1}\otimes S_{2})$$

no reallly

Okay, for every k parametzied boundary condition, We get a full
"eiegenspectrum" in the interior.

$$A-E-B\frac{1}{D(k)}C$$

$\int d3k=N$. Desnity of states is achievd by integrating over k
variable, which might be the same as ttnegrating over z and pole
grabbing. If we can exhcange order of integration, denisty of states
matrix will have a pole in a region sometimes and sometimes not for
different vlaues of k. We average over them. Average boundary
conditions.

Perhaps in resosnace, this spectrum is stiff to changes in boundary
condition so their influece builds up somehow.

Reosannce in Bloch wave functions: If I ave a periodic ptoential that is
exacpable - two mounds, then he denisty of states will see resonance
peaks around the cpature enrgies, due to the inseneistvity to the bloch
boubndary condition, meaning that lots of energies will be centered
arund the enrgies for many values of

Classical One-particle function. The particle field transfromation
builds a field

$$\rho(x)=\sum\delta(x-x_{i})$$

Then you can build field equations based upon the interactions of the
partciles.

But what if you leave one or two partciels out?

$$x_{0}$$

$$\rho(x)=\sum_{i\ne0}\delta(x-x_{i})$$

Then you have a particle interacting with a field. We can remove the
field by presolution. Then we have effective 1-body equations of motion
of the particle.

The quantum field can be constrcuted from the quantum particle

$$\hat{\rho}(x)=\sum\delta(x-\hat{x}_{i})$$

$$\hat{\rho}=\hat{\psi}^{\dagger}\hat{\psi}$$

Wave function to quantum field? single wave functions or giant kroncker
product wavefunction? Individual hensenberg ooperators operate in giant
kron space sine inlcude ocrrelations. Hartree fock henisenber style
assumes hat they are single particle krond onto a bunch of identities

Interesting furhter possiblities:

Self consistent method: build one-particle equations and then recreate
the field using these new eq of motion until self-consistent.

regularized and smoothed fields. A field that is a sum of gaussians will
never have much high k amplitude.

$$\rho(x)=\sum e^{(x-x_{i})2}/\alpha$$

Connection to ewald summation and particle mesh.

Using a single time dpendant wave function connected to large number of
classical particles anmd collect statistics- reasonable scheme for
1-particle denisty function calcukation (mayb green's function?
Including time dpendance autocorrelation will get me green's function I
think instead of just collating single time densities.) Way super easier
than lots of other methods. Qustion is. Does it work? DFT connection -
denisty parametzied by classical partciles lumps instead of quantum
particle wavefuctions.

Green's function: collection of all correlation functions. For random
starting field, denisty matrix is fine. But for random dynamics, the
future wave function is not detemrinistcially derived from starting
wavefunction. ie if the hamiltnian is a random variable then a sampling
of it gives wavefunctions dynamics and the wavefunctipn inherits
rnaodmness. So the state like green's function or the two time denisty
function is somethng like $$G(x,t,t,x)=\sum p_{i}|\psi(t')><\psi(t)|$$

$$G(x,t,t,x)=\sum_{0}\sum_{f}p_{\psi_{f}|\psi_{0}}|\psi_{f}(t')>p_{\psi_{0}}<\psi_{0}(t)|=G^{R}$$

$$G^{A}=|\psi_{0}><\psi_{f}|$$

$$G^{F}=G^{A}-G^{R}$$ or something

The idea of regarding eahc component of the wavefunction as an ordinary
random variable is a good one. feutifuyl line of thought.

Now, the green's function as a probabilistic operator taking the radnom
variable $\psi_{0}$ to the new random variable $\psi_{f}$ is of course

$$G=e^{iHt}$$

Where H is a random operatoer. Whne we evaulate things, we need to
integrate with respeoct to the joint distirubtion of EVERYTHING at once,
sine there will e weird correlations. Beware speperating random psi into
random components and then re adding. The probabilsitic evolution may
not be linear like that. This assumes very special form of the
conditional porbability.

$$G?=P(\psi_{f}|\psi_{0})$$

Radnom variable equations

$\psi_{f}=G\psi_{0}$

The density matrix formulaism might have been a coneptual mistep. In the
quantum mechanics, Mostly only second moments of RV matter. Use random
variable wavefunctions, whihc are joint distributions of the compoenents
of the vectors in them. Then you can build anything from there.

With joint distribution

$P(G,\psi_{0},\psi_{f})$

Conservation of denisty of states. Or conservation of states. The wavy
version of etendue conservation. A(x,E) obeys a conservation equation.
Man. If thats true that could be kind of useful. For full matrix its
kind of obvious. N never changes if your evolution is square.

Key dsitnctions between hermitian and non-hermitian

Diagonlizatiobn becomes schur or jordon

Left and rgiht eiegenvectors become sepeate recipricol spaces.
Similarity transfrom instead of Unitary. Eigenvalues become complex

Parametzied basis set. Use lalplace transform. Then I get 'em all
parametzied by s. And I can do the time depednant version. Laplace with
a tacked on ramp section to overlap. Or double sided laplace if you'd
like. I think I need to enforce continuity for some reason. FUnction
space reasons. H1. But definetly not guranteed hermitian. I tried to do
this with integration by parts and it shat its pants. as we let grid
size go small, the enhanced laplace goes more towards regular laplace.

In 3d we'll need to use either spherical stuff, or perhaps 3d lplace
with hole cut out. or 3d half plae lalpace? I guess wave packet needs to
decay fast enough such that exploding laplace doesn't make it diverge. I
kind of like that. Discrete doesn't like psherical things very much.

Using homogenous boundary conditions seems ill. Conceptually, injected
waves makes more sense.

Use laplace transform with envelope function to cover up your shame.
Heaveiside + reasonable ramp.

How to use free green's function?

Feynman wheeler as presolution of EM field to remove dynamics

The cutoff dt in ODE dyanmics is the cutoff $\Lambda$ in zero point
energy. Zero point atucorrelation gos into vector potential. Coul this
lead to the semiclassical $\int pdx=nh$ condition?
