The gaussian distirbution of kornecker indepdnant variables

$$e^{(Lx\otimes x\otimes x\otimes x\otimes x)2}$$

Can I reduce the full constructed space to just its korn prod variable

Integrating over all k giving you denity of states. Each band supports 1
state per unit cell in totality (2 if you include spin). integrating
over all k gives you the entire band which must add up to 1.

Parametrized boundary conditions + a boundary condition dennsity
function = how many total system states lead to this boundary condition?
external density of states. I like that. How does one build combined
denisty of states from

$$N=\int\frac{1}{A-\lambda-B\frac{1}{D-\lambda}C}=\int\frac{g(\lambda)}{A-\lambda}$$

Two indepdnant eigenproblems

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A-\mu & B\\
C & D-\nu
\end{array}\right]$$

Then $\mu$is like the external BC when schur complemented and

Aliasing and the free boundary conditions. Thje reason we get bands even
though we're not doing bloch physics is because of aliasing/. If we
sampling every dx, then hgh freqeuncies look the same as low freqencies
(aliasing)

The free into bloch BC looks like. A bloch of free with another bloch of
bloch.

$$\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
z\\
 &  & z\\
 & 1/z
\end{array}\right]$$

This matrix ought ot have surface states.

The Bethe (dynamical scattering) matrix something like.

$$\left[\begin{array}{cccc}
z\\
 &  & z\\
 & 1/z\\
 &  &  & z
\end{array}\right]$$

How do you encode the number of unit cells in the crystal?

Energy tranasfer between two sources. The radiating source uses Gr. The
absorbing source uses Ga. Field from Energy atransferred one way =
$\phi^{2}=j_{1}G^{A}G^{R}j_{2}$

$j_{2}G^{R}G^{R}j_{2}$ = power outputted

Legitimate question even for wave eqution fixed ends. Energy =
$(\partial_{t}\phi)^{2}+(\partial_{x}\phi)^{2}$. Poynintg
$\partial_{t}\int Edx=\int Wdx+Boundary$. ball and spring model P = Fv.
F = j applied force. $v=\partial_{t}$. Power =
$\int j\partial_{t}\phi dx$. This inlcudes power in and power out
though. if $\phi=G^{R}je^{i\omega t}$

All energy is perfecelty abosrbed. =\> perfcelty cancels all waves to
the left of the sborber.

Pure absorbing source = impedance matched

Radar transmitter and receiver

If source and absorber operate at same freqeuncy, divergences occur.
Fermi golden rule -\> go to rates. A oduble pole represents a rate when
transformed.

A source with character of both uses feynman?

Then find effective boundary sources to do current.

The source matrix $jj^{\dagger}$is easily converted into the desnity
matrix via G. The impedance of thr source and blackbody. In QM, the
source matrix is the initial denisty matrix.

If rho outsde is the external denisty of states matrix. $jj=I/V$ for
outside (Everything filled)

In some sense $\Gamma$ is a source denisty matrix. rho outside becomes
an effective source inside upon appilcation of $B(D-E)^{-1}$ on either
side of it

$$B(D-E)^{-1}\rho_{o}B(D-E)^{-1}=\Gamma$$

The sky is blue beause air is blue.

Dispersion. Is it possible to seperate colors from an isotropic source.
You transform freqeuncy spread into spatial spread showing the two are
equivlaent. The color rayleighs criterion. Prisms are not active
objects. Perhaps a pumped laser mdeium or something can do it or
something with nonlinear behavior. Consider colored images spearated by
prism.

$d^{2}qd\omega dtd^{2}A$

$d^{3}qdV$

The equivlaent of poincare invariants $\sum dqdx$. Some kind of Trace?
Minor expansion?

Random sources + Born approxiamtion = dephasing?

$$jj=U\psi\psi U$$

An approach to debye waller factor. Use in inverse scattering
(transition between coherent and incoherent inverse scattering).

Clearly related to Dima's fish.

The learned somethin' new club
------------------------------

COnvene, discuss something we'd like to learn, delegate. disperse for
1-2-3 hours reconvene. Try to teach one another.

Study buddies!

Shit, I could do this solo. Strcture myself. 1 hour to find the things I
should look up, assign them an hour apiece.

Tasks:

Career services

Marketing/Man manipulator

Car Battery

Remove Books from Koski office

Prep for dima somehow(lube myself?)

Nanohub

Rockets - Make screamer

SolidWorks
