The Mystery of The Commutation relation
---------------------------------------

We can prove that the fermioninc creation and annihilation operators
$e^{i\phi}$ anti commute with \[,\]=$i\pi sign$. However, this is not
sufficent to achieve the delta function in $\{\psi,\psi^{\dagger}\}$

It seems impossible for the expentnial of two things to become a sum,
which is necessary to develop the non operator delta.

When discretized, the delta may become a much smoother function that
occurs in some sense between grid points.

When the commutation relation is smoothed, The commutator vanishes
instead of the antimcommutatore when the poointds coincide. The
commutator phase traces out a circle in the complex plane, fermionic to
anyonic to bosonic to anyonic to femrionic.

Possible solutions: Weaken to $\ln\frac{ix+\alpha}{ix-\alpha}$. Waken
further to include finite box size. That's what von delft has in it I
think.

Possible wekane dleta function to $\int\delta f=f(0)$ test function
form. show that $\int\{\psi,\psi^{\dagger}\}f=f(0)$

Suggestion : modify grid commutation to
$\{\psi_{i},\psi_{i+1}^{\dagger}\}=\delta$or
$\{\psi_{i},\psi_{j}^{\dagger}\}=f(i-j+1/2)$

$\{\psi_{i},\psi_{i+1}^{\dagger}\}=e^{i\Delta\Lambda}\delta$

Why is delta necessary? What does it achieve?

Klein Factors?

Musings
-------

Core of excitiation is an uninteracting plasmon rather than an
uninetracting electron. Different point to perturb from.

The ground state of the luttinger liquid is not specified in the
fermionic language (it probably can be, but only after finidnig it in
the bosnonic ground state). Its the bosonic ground state.

SOmehow

If we could modulate the hitckness of two sides of the gate, we could
achieve a crystal system, although one that is achieved from self
interaction.

The gate does not have to have x$\rightarrow-x$ symmettry. Maybe I
should figure out what that does.

What is $\rho(E)$ tunnelling density of states? Could be
$\rho(k,k)d^{3}k=\rho(E)dE$ . Or perhaps a fourier transform
$Tr(\rho(\omega,x,x'))=Tr\int e^{iHt-i\omega t}\rho(t,x,x')$. k might
not make good sense in a sho potential or something, the other one
always will. $\rho=\psi^{\dagger}(E)\psi(E)$. This will not show the
fully occupied density of states. Just the

My ordinary free fermi gasi ntuition is failing at many points. I'm
inclined to factor into a density of states and a thermal occupation
probability. I'm also confusing a fermi energy and a chemical potential,
which may in fact be the same thing.

Thermal Fermi Golden rule $R=Tr\rho_{1}H_{\Gamma}\rho_{2}$ (1 and 2
denote different reservoirs. However these indices hsould be bundled
with the x) Transport comes from 4point function. However if we assume
factoring of the system since the reservoirs are nearly independant,
then we might be able to get away with just 2-point functions.

An interaction on a single edge merely changes the velocity. It does not
change the exponent. The expoenent change comes from mixing of different
channels to factorize the hamiltonian into better bosonic excitation
operators.

The anyons really do have creattion and annihilation operatros that
satisfy the phase commutation relations.

Vortices live between lattice sites and below

U(1) A and crystakl momentum
----------------------------

The vector potential on a grid is U(1) for the same reason that momentum
becomes crystal momentum. Vector potential and momentum are buddos.

Do you suppose that the range reduced vector potential $e^{i\phi}$ and
the domain redued vector potential A(k) are the same or different pieces
that come apart from the hwole vector potential nearly free electron in
crystal style.

Stretching the brillouin zone. The U(1) A concept seems very flexible
inregards to the lattice. Can I extend this felxbility to the brillouin
zone or the definition of momentum?

Voltage = oscillation factor
----------------------------

We may inlcude this by $(H+V)e^{iVt}\psi=i\partial_{t}e^{iVt}\psi$. The
the time derivative clearly brings down a cancelling factor and
$H\psi=i\partial_{t}\psi$. The same trick will work from many body
hamiltonians and vaefunctions as well. You'll get another factor for
each particle.

Alternatively, The tunneling $\psi_{L}^{\dagger}\psi_{R}$ are actualy
physically seperated from each other. This requires a factor of
$e^{i\int_{L}^{R}Adx}$between them. If I include the voltage in A, then
A=Et. Integrating between them gives $\int Adx=Vt$.

Bosonization = Gauge function
-----------------------------

$\psi=e^{i\phi}$. What does this look like. How does this make sense?
One possible answer is $\psi=e^{i\Lambda}.$

Hopping term
$\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{i\Lambda_{j+1}-i\Lambda_{j}}=\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{ia\partial\Lambda}$.
There we go. We've got some derivatives

Point split density, identical to hopping term

$\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{i\Lambda_{j+1}-i\Lambda_{j}}$

Double denisty (self interaction)

Two applications of hopping term

$\psi_{j+2}^{\dagger}\psi_{j+1}e^{i\Lambda_{j+2}-i\Lambda_{j+1}}$$\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{i\Lambda_{j+1}-i\Lambda_{j}}=\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{ia\partial\Lambda}\psi_{j+1}^{\dagger}\psi_{j}e^{ia\partial\Lambda}$.
We have a forward and backward difference when we expand the expentials.
That gives a good laplacian.

If we can apply the hopping every time step and the other one every
other time stepthen we have two terms that are basically the same. Or if
we apply them sequentially, Trotter style. The self interaciton is would
be in the position basis and the hopping in the momentum. The
interaction just counts for two hops.

If we kept everything ungauged fixed, every particle carries a gauge
along with it. marking where it came from csort of.

$U=1+iH$.

Do we want to add, or multiply the two different kinds of terms.

Normal ordering prescrition

Grid Point Splitting
--------------------

Point splitting requires gauge factors according to schwinger. Points
splitting is not necessary once we're on a discrete lattice because it
regularizes anyhow. We're double regularizing.

Edge thoery for noninteracting
------------------------------

We can Recursively schur complement down.

Tunnelling
----------

Tunnelling is so rare that two partciles rarely tunnel at once.
Therefore it is a single particle process.

Tunnelling is easier than general transport because the two sides
approximately factor into indepdnant reservoirs.

Tunnelling is suppressedwith tmepurature sometimes. Naively I'd think
there would be more particles in higher energy, hence avoding the
barrier more

Does tunnelling require quantumness/coherence? Could that be being
reduced with tempurature?

Cyclotron
---------

Layered guiding center. Classical. 2 partciles center of mass motion. Is
the General case of kepler orbit in magnetic field solvable? Strong
field is. Just drift around each other (as long as far enough apart that
cycltron loops don't intersect in limit of inifintiely strong magentic
field this holds since cyctron loops grow really tight). There will be
ordinary drift + electric gradient drift.

Haldane pseduopotential

quasiaparticles -\> multipole expansion of interaction

Duality
-------

A,$\rho$ are edge and vertex functions.

Perhaps flux and j are dual edge and dual vertex functions.

$\sqrt{\phi}e^{i\rho}$is certainly a dually looking way to dsicuss phase
and denstiy.

The vector potential play we need for particles becomes current play.

A\<=\>j. The four potentials are daul. The 4-current is a dual vector
potential for the vortex field.

$j\rightarrow j+\nabla\times Q$ keeps the continuity equation running.
this is the analog of a gauge transfromation. In 2d wehre curl and del
are symmetrical.

Electrosatitc regularization
----------------------------

Instead of letting point interaction happen, just pretend that the
potential is a distance a out of plane.

In 1-d we can do singular gauge tranadffromations a distance a away from
the 1-d line

Slice porjection theorem.

What is indentical particle
---------------------------

How do you distinguish statistics?

How do you detemrine berry phase

Amplitidue splittijng interfermoetry.

Exchange integrals. \<x\^2\> for different partciles. Nonidentical
partciles can hyopthetically become entangled into fermioninc or bosnicn
wavefunctions.

For abelian anyons we don't need to specify whether ropes braidscross
over each other in order

How are there distinguishable particles? 1. far apart objects have
vanishing exhnage interactions and hamilotinans. or decoherence kills
phase subtelties (wahtever that means)

The hamilonian as an observable?
