Berry Phase for particle on sphere. Particle on sphere should be expa
nded in terms of spherical harmonics. If magnetic monopole inside sphere
we can use non integer harmonics. What would wkb say for berry phase? or
consider a particle trapped in a slowly moving sector of the sphere.
Should be something like spin berry phase connecting to wkb phase.
SHould be something like total

Is chern simons in sphere? What about two interacting spinors. Chern
simons is some way of ocmpressing many many parameter berry phase (one
set for each particle say) and compressing down into a berry field.
SImilar from going from coulomb potential of all positions to potential
field. Maybe

THe "poisson strcture"m, the vecloty part of hamiltonian is where fancy
strcture lies. What parts of lagrangian can be integrated adiabatically.

The replicated gaussian is the same as the gaussian cosine? Theta
transfromation in Ziman?

Syrface states correspond to complex wavevectors but real energies.
Decaying objects like resoances correspond to complex energy. Somehow
the dispersion surface is analytically continued into.

The impedance boundary condition

Rotation in the kkxx space

The envelope equation needs a vector potential? The anamolous velocity

The envelope decompositoin versus the born oppenheimer deocmposition.
Compare and constrat. slow/fast. One is 2 degrees of freedom

Polarization and the Ziamn enevlope derviation. Wannier functions

Bound

The universality of degeracy points. They always take the form of the
quadratic formula. This probably fails for many body sytems and perhaps
other scenarios.

Implementation in circuits. Can I do it? Without gyrators perhaps I need
something like spin. two states per cell

Nyquist plots. They are somewhat like winding number diagrams to
determine stability. Stability is the existence of epxoennetially
decaying or exploding modes in time. We need exponentially decaying or
exploding modes at edges to achieve surface states.

In time if we transition from one kind of parametric excitation to
another. do we see a pulse at the transition? This pulse indicates a
"surface mode"

If we have non born karman boundary conditions, what does that do to
band thoery. 1: finite effects quantize the k 2: different boundary
condtions: impedance boundary conditions. now instead of k there is a
complex parameter z $z\approx e^{ika}$. Complex k is like z not on unit
circle.

2 kinds of gauge on the wannier functions. 1 you can put a complex phase
on each site, but 2 the definition of the wannier functions has a gauge
itself be putting an arbitrary complex phase in bloch space before you
do your foureir transform. The first type can be undone by performing
the exact oopisite gauge transformation onthe enevlope function f. The
second type can be undone by convolution of the fourier transfrom if the
inverse phase applied to the enevlope function. I would really like to
understand how specifically

If the gauge phase is pure phase, and perhaps i also want it to be
periodic, then the gauge phase has to wrap and integer number of time.

path integral formulation. subdivide continuum position into boxes of
size a. Integrate inside boxes leaving sum over discrete positions. Path
integral formulation of band thoery. When integrated out, leave behind
adjustments to energy but also vector potentials

Path integral is based typically on finite difference thinking.
(functions on points) what if I put line functions in there. Or changed
time update to use edge functions throughout including time updates.

Edge function formulation of partition function

So a couple goals: reduce the concept of an edge state to its simplest
possible form. The parametzied 2x2 matrix. What kind of k strcture do I
need?. COnsidering complex extensions of parameters. Landuas point of
closest approach for adiabaticity in time.

Edge states from envelope equation. Is the nonlinear dispersion
responsible

Screening. Polarization of an atom can be calculated from first order
perturbation thoery. Likewise we can calculate the polarization of an
electron gas. We can resubstitue this in as a dielectric constant in the
effective 1-particle hamiltoanian. The polarization field exhausts the
possilbities in 1-d. Define the polarization field.

Z renormaliazation if your thoery produces effectively source terms.

Path integral bloch wavefunction thinking

Real space berry phase. Berry phase as potentiial for enevlope evolution
