Klystron and TEM
================

The klystron is an amplifier, but it shares much in common with the TEM.
Some points: if the coherence of the beam is such that it fills greater
than a wavelength, it will suck as an amplifier

X-ray samples charge denisty (not quite. It samples charge / mass
density. Hence why it doesn't see nucleii, only the cloud). via thompson
scattering

The TEM samples electric potential or field

The klystron is a microscope for light (EM waves). It physically
smplfiers them in a manner.

A standard box of gas isolated conserves momentum. A box of gas in
physical but adiabatic contact with surroundings, exchanges momentum but
not enerrgy. This is a new canonical ensemble, where the cetner of mass
velicty v becomes a parametert, in the same way T becomes a parameter or
mu becomes a parameter.

Big question: why do certain quanitites persist from micro up to macro?
Seems to be symmettry related. Renormalization makes irrlevant?

Variational ansatz
------------------

$$\psi=\psi\otimes\psi(x1,x2,x,3,x4)$$

allow all correlation in other degree's of freddom, but integrated them
out. Is this the dressed charge?

Can I variationally find best green's function?

the line charge green's function
--------------------------------

Coonsider in 2-d that you have the green's function of a line charge or
line source.

$$\nabla^{2}G_{x}=\delta(x)$$

or symmettrized line source

$$\nabla^{2}G_{\pm}=\delta(x)\pm\delta(y)$$

Now from this construct the full green's function. You poor bastard.

Now let's suppose we add a $V(x,y)\psi$

Graph
-----

Is the adjacency matrix or laplacian of a feynman graph useful at all

Scatterring
-----------

Always pay attention to momentum transfer. Classical Born impulse
appooximation

RUtherford scattering cross section

Thought: If we allow to go inlastic and we let incoming vector be zero,
then we can get resolution limits of an emitting source.
