The cyclotron decomposition of guiding center decompositoin.

If we think of the guiding center as $X=x-\frac{1}{\omega}v_{y}$.
$v_{y}=p-A$This is a clear twisting of momentum into space. (or mixing).
Hence we get that $[X,Y]=il_{B}^{2}$. Interestingly, the XY plane
becomes an effective phase plane. The left over hamiltonian is only
$H=V(X,Y)$ with a tad of higher landau level mixing that you perhaps
should worry about. (Suppoesedly the influence of mixing can be most
felt in berry phase and such). The hamiltonian is constant in abscence
of external potential. $V=X^{2}+Y^{2}$ would give us another level of
SHO to work with. But now each one is a further out edge state.

The poisson bracket supplies the cross product necessary for drift
motion.

The lowest landau level is a coherent state formalism. That means that
although I can shift and such. To expand in the power series is to go
into something akin to the energy representation. We could also
hypoethetically ocmpress into the $\psi(x)$ or $\psi(y)$ rperesetnations
as ananlogs of $\psi(x)$ $\psi(p)$.

For bosonization $\sqrt{q}b^{\dagger}=\rho(q)$ and

Bosoinzaization is done within coherent sate formalism? Using the wigner
quasiprobabilty.

$:\rho(x):=\int_{0}^{\infty}|\psi|^{2}dy-\int_{-\infty}^{0}|\psi|^{2}dy$.
If we are only in waves (no pockets underneath), then $h=\rho$. This
deifnition of rho makes sense regardless.

$dx\rho=\frac{hdx}{l_{B}^{2}}$. We can parametize a set of states by the
curve h(x). Is this a complete basis? The equiavalent of shifting
$e^{ihp_{y}}=e^{ihx}=e^{i\int hdx}$.. This operator is the same as
putting a new particle there.

$\psi(y+h,y+h,y+h...)$ vs $\psi(y+h,y,y,y)+\psi(y,y+h,y,y,y)+...$. This
is a coherent phonon state versus single phonon state? or
$\sum e^{ih(x)}\partial_{x}$is a phoon creation op?

These are more similar to rossby waves than I first anticipated.

S=$\int^{h}dy\psi\partial_{t}\psi-\psi H\psi$ and use the fullly filled
psi wave. or could put this into a grassman integral. to leave behind an
effective action for h. or h could be a paramter insde the wavefunciton.

Fun with eletrostatics
----------------------

Shot shielding.
$\frac{1}{a^{2}}+\frac{1}{a^{2}+x^{2}}e^{-\beta\frac{1}{a-x}}$. Take
expectation value of field due to shot sielding. The average field will
have the probability denisty as a charge distribution. the field vwith
fluctatue depdnaing on the small number of charges.

Curve coherent states
---------------------

oherent states map points to states in an overocmplete basis. Can i map
curves or other geometrical objects to states in an overcomplete basis.
Curve state

Fractional charge
-----------------

Shielding causes fracitonal charge ot papear. whats special is that in
FQHE is that you have fracitonal charge exactly and then opposite
fracitonal charge, not the otherv fracitonal charge being diffused over
the enitre sample like is shielding.
