Effective mass is correction due to band strcture. Ends up in the
denominator of a term. Similar to permittivty in this respect?

include spin orbit coupling as a harmonic oscillator term (E = qudratic
potential

Magnetic field causes currents to form onedges that are exatcly
opposite. Cosider if we tray tapping this sptial variation into a light
bulb. Doing this changes the topology! of the circuit.

We can include the ends by addidng a very weak harmonic oscillator
potential.

Quation: How legitmate are the harmonic oscillator poentials as
representing cofinment? What we really want are sharp edges, but they
aren't particularly abnalytically tractable.Well, I cannot make toroidal
confinement with harmonic oscillators (although a x\^4 potential
could!). I can only make domains that are topologically equivlaent to a
chunk of plane. Perhaps if we can glue harmonic potentials. We might as
well glue domains then though. Probably easier.

Two harmonic p\[otentials added together make a new one of new strength
and new equilbirum position (an example of renormalization sort of.
Effective constants.). This is both a strength and weakenss of the
potentials. mutlipole expansions give coulombic potentials similar
issues or maybe all potentials are like that to some degree?

spin orbit coupling

schgur complement in one level system. energy = E = \> broadening etc.

Fermi function makes a domain whch becomes a blurry or effective domain.
May change topology. Topology of energy bands is set of lines, or set of
points or continuum. Do bands get thinner the deeper down we go? Bands
are an energy broadening effect. Little broadening for tightbinding
(tightliy bound wavbefunctions have very little off diagonal overlaps,
hence the cosine dependance on wavevector becomes less). if you have
finite crystal, finite energies fill up band. However if you have
infinite crystal whose length parameter you decrease, bands thicken, and
they thicken ast the lengths at which the overlap of the tightly bound
wavefunctions becomes signifcant. For hydrogen orbiaiaals, this is at
multoplkes of bohr radius (which is the appropiate decay legnth)

A finite crystal is chunky in its band spectrum, but then coupling to
the exterior broadens these energies to fill a continupos band IF the
broadening is sufficient to connect each spectural point. This will
depend on two things. The broadening and the chunkiness. Quanutm well
are extremely chunky. We can try to isolate system more thouroughly as
well (reflective walls or something, cold.).

Boradening is a manfiestation of the uncerstainty princial. Is there a
schur complement based proof of the uncertainty principle? Isntead of
using a derivative, laplace transform it in standard proof.

Is the fresnel phse factor a funciont of deminsion of wave propagation?
In 1-d, the moajirty contriubtion ought to come from the closest point
(going through a slit or a sequence of many slits to allow 2-d to
popgate off into space. The slits might have to be minimally fare
apart).

Paramerters to wiggle

Coupling to external enivorment - level broadening

lattice parameter - band broadening

lattice length - band chunkiness

potwntial strength -

External fields - E = Adot, polarization - berry's phase

B = landau levels

Surface states = ? WHy does a surface state look like a larger cosine
level on the midpoint between to band energy ladder rungs.

surface plasmons?

quantum hall effect makes effective atoms? If I were to make a tight
binding model what would I use as my test functions? some sort of
guassian lump (or triangluar lump), however! the gaussian lump has to
hacve a phase difference as you loop around equal to flux enclosed. Each
square in domain has a flux that belongs to it. Thephase oscillations
give a cloackwise current in steady state. Nice.

$e^{flux}$as an operator? flux is defined on faces. Wavefunction is
defined on points or faces. Not sure which.

It isd aas always, esier to transform the integral definitions to
descrete form (vector times a face integral). The makes vector fields
into co-chains. How do I tuyrn a spinor field into a cochain? I need to
take a spinoriual integral\... grassman integral? or spinorial
chain?$\int d\eta(a\eta+b\eta*)$. That's cool in abstract, but in
coordnate experssions, I have a spinor function. TO what geometrical
object do I associated a grassman object

The landua gauyge takes domain, divides into strips, and then puts plane
wave along string and SHO levels (or particle in box ish) across strip

Betti number = difference of ranks of derivative matrices

mod 2 chains = spinor/grassman/projective integrals. Is this the road to
projective differential equations? It is actually a grassman
differential equation using grassman diervatives. grassman variables are
wedge proeduct related. And related to that projective idea of grassman
stuff using subspaces to represent lines.

Could I reformulatere the wave equation in terms of porjective geometry?
The idea is that sums of certain lines add up to 0. Caustic curves as
projective curves and saying how they meet..
