Deducing homology from scattering data. Nullspace of matrix is
scattering states. parametized by energy - effective topology at energy.

Efftective domain - fintie spherical barrier, effectively sepeartes
inside and outside. Resonant scattering. At resonant scattering
conditions, does there appear a third (almost) null vector (The quasi
bound state + 2 plane waves). Is scatering problem actually SVD? That is
why lmabda squared appears because in svd sigma squared appears. I'm
trying to take the square root of H. $p=\sqrt{2m(H-V)}$. The momentum
matrix is rectangular (and not necessarily hermitian? when tunnelling).
We take SVD to get to scattering equation. p is appromxtaely the finite
difference opearator where there is no potewntial. Not the momentum
operator\... but something like it. scattering/asymptotic momentum
operator or something. What is the aympotitic momentum in a region where
there is potential given a wavefunction in that region? oooooh. Tough
one. \... The Moller operator? The scattering matrix (which is related
to the resolvent) is the Moller operator squared-ish. Maybe the moller
operator really squared is the svd equation and the reason scattering
states suck is because the svd is the wrong perspective. The wrong
generalization of eigenvalues. Finite moller: given plane wave gives
scattering wave. (adibatic potential turn on momentum evolution
operator). Inifnite product of moller operatyors. Egienvalues of moller?
Moller is not unitary, it is that other subtle thing. Normal? (no
isometric) Is $\Omega=e^{isomething}$

If we adibatically tunr on a potential, it makes perfect sense that the
parts we catch inside the potential decay out of the potential slowly.
While the parts caught outside the potential bounce off.

Moller is whatever equivlanet of unitary for rectangular matrices. omega
omega is the identity matrix when you line it up right and porjection
operator in the other direction

There might be 4 moller matrices oir more. There might be a moller for
the left and right side of the rectangular hamiltonian.

Moller conjugation

$H_{o}=\Omega(H+V)\Omega$

$\Omega H_{o}=(H+V)\Omega$ or $H_{o}\Omega=\Omega(H+V)$. Only one of
these may be correct since moller squared is either a rpojection or
identity depdnding on the ordering. Maybe some daggers or transposes are
in order for these equations.

This is indeed a solvable problem via vecotrization. Sylvester equation.
Boom. You have your moller operator. That is awesome. Wait\... is the
vectorized equation rectangluar? Prboably. Okay, so the moller might be
a nullspace vector with the contraint that itt squares to 1.

E and k are spearte porlbems. E are the $\sigma^{2}(\lambda)$. hence we
can create the kernel porjection operator by

The sigma squared are porlbably qudratic functions of lambda. since
lambda is actually physically real (real asympotitc momentum). Qudratic
may not have solution. But isf resolvent is nearly degenrteate ill
conditioned, then nullspace is almost larger and we get resonance.

$H=p(\lambda)p(\lambda)$

$\oint dE(H-E)^{-1}=ProjectionKernel(\lambda)$

We should not set E =$\lambda^{2}$.

Kernel decomposiuition.

This might be the time indepndant deifinition of the moller op. Therefor
to find moller, LU decompose H + V (We already know LU of H0 is p).

Moller op as rectnagular matrix might be aporporiate,

$p_{o}=\Omega^{\dagger}p\Omega$ or maybe $p_{o}=\Omega^{\dagger}p$.
$\Omega p_{o}=p$. giving $H+V=p^{2}/2m$. One gives asympotitc momentum
and state back. One gives asympotitc momentum and converts state to
plane wave. It is the paramizted nullspace of the moller momentum
operator that is of fundamental importance

moller first bings back to asymptitc state, p operator avaluates, then
moller brings back to dressed state.

Using resolvent? Resolvent in SVD equation. Creates a projection opartor
on kernel subspace is we make seolvent onf SVD squared matrix.

Discretize heisneberg equations for p?

a rectangular matrix alaways has a nullspace for all parameters. Hence
it is the perfect model for a continuum of eigenvalues.

Homogenous solution matching..

Using SVD as apporximate toplogy (Effective nullspace)

interpreation of Potential in homology? maybe self connection (looop
that goes back on itself)

nullspace of direct sum uis direct sum of nullspaces. The nullspace of
cocupolrf (schur style) operators is ? It is the space itself that
matters,not its span vectors. Perhaps describe using exterior product.

This is where the Zucker lpalce transform ide tty mayb come in.

Basis inbdependant schur somplement. What is it? Subspace mixing
transfmromations. Imortant in potentials of non finite extent where
poistion basis does not cleanly sepearete scattering partition and
radiating parittion.

Gaussian elimination of max sum or soft max matrices is the type with no
division

The main purpose of eigenvalues is to perform matrix multiplication
extremely swiftly.

more htoughts on parametzied nullspace
--------------------------------------

We can construct the hermitian matrix out of a rectangular and this
matrxi does have an eigenbasis. The meaning of such an eigenbasis is
unclear

Does the parametized nullspace ver gain dimensiooanlity? For correct
values of prameter, it does sweep though actual eigenvalues of boundary
condition included matrix

Taking square root of rectangular hamiltonian via gaussian elminiation
gives quasimoemntum opeartor. The L part is square, the U part is
rectangular. which do we want? Or we could try to get it spearted into
two single row missing matrcies like how we get deouble derivative from
single derivative. We could then put this into strang form ACA big
matrix

the lmiit type boundary condiotns are worthless. limits are not promises
at all. The limit of extremely poor series can be well defined. However,
a limit plus bounded boundary condsition. this I could work with.
Pseudospectra tell you where such a omdification could take you.

Topology is geometry modulo wiggling.

Absolute topology is as physcially untenable as the idea of absolute
circles or inifntesimal points.

Geometry grew from the need to desrbie how things are in a symplifuied
way. Projective geometry grew from the need to describe persepctive, the
canonical model of which is the pinhole camera . Quantum kinematics one
might say is the result that everything must be described thorugh the
physical lens of physical (momentum and energy carrying) wave-like
fields (although this is a half-way house perspective akin to that of
the Heinsenberg Microscope, and implies that perhaps there are hidden
variables that describe what is really out there even though we can't
see it, a concept that has been shown to be false (see Bell's
Inequality, etc.). Time and time again, absolute mathemtical objects are
too constrained to easily and accurately descibe the physical world in
all situations. They are are only to approximaetly (but admittedly very
accurately and effectively) characterize behavior in constrained
regimes.

A classic topology joke is that the human body is homeomorphiuc to the
donut ,since after all we have a mouth that connects to our anus. This
is ridiculous though, because we cannot shine light and see thorugh such
a twisted passage, so really the body is homeomorphic to the sphere. But
this is not the hole

$$;)$$

picture. Perhaps forthe purposes of a high pressure jet we really are a
donut. For x-rays we are the topology of our skeleton, which is a
significantly more complicated object. The atom is after all mostly
empty space as they say, so perhaps our topology is that of a set of
disjoint points, one for every nuclei and electron in our body and so
on.

Absolute topology is fine and all in abstract, but in physical
situations topology can only be considered effetcive topology, a
function of the mechanics and energy scales invloved.

Resoantnt scattering occurs due to the fact at low energies the domain
of scattering effectively has a hole pucnhed out of it. At high energy,
the domain becomes the full 3d conittum once again. Resonant scattering
occurs as the pains of transition between the two regimes.

Matrices encode a great deal of information. For the purposes of group
theory, the degenracies of the matrix describe what symmettry group it
belongs. For topological purposes the boundaries and edges can be found,
the methods and analysis of which . The fact that symmettry can prevent
scatterig and transitions is an old one, and too well known to
sufficiently shock people. The fact that topology can do the same though
uis newer and more upsetting.

Is it possible to have "effective" symmettry? Yes, probably. even truly
forbidden trnasitions do occur because of the impossibility of achieving
true symmettry. It is porbably not quite correct to but the picture of
broken symmettry in these terms because that is not what they are really
getting at.

A transmission line is a 3d piece of copper. However, the fields in it
are well described by projection onto a subspace that has an effective
topology of 1-d.

Effective nullspace and the SVD

Magnetic fields phase spacify (p-x) actual geometrical space (x-y). To
remove theuir influence, one has to canocially transform to coordinates
where the .

The vector potnetial is both and object of momentum and position.
Momentum becasuse that's where it goes and position because that is what
it is a funciton of. One could describe location itself in terms of
vector potnetial. x = A. positionb and momentu mare gauge quanitites
under canonical transformation the smae way A is agauge innder
traditional gauge change.

Landau Levels and old quantum theory

feynman diagrams are essentially an index notation. Kornecker porduct
stacked downward, matrix mutplication to left is good notation.

Delta function potential is coniutous version of low rank operator.
hence we can use woodbury seherrison to get closed form. Rnaodmize
location of delta to get anderson model.
