The density matrix
------------------

The denisty matrices (in particular the one particle denisty matrix, has
a majority of the info you want) are pretty much the goal in many body
theory. In high energy, scattering matrices are. Perhaps considering the
scattering matrix to be a form of denisty matrix is a good persective.
classically that makes sense. You start the system in some dtirbution in
phase space and you get some scattered ditribution. You then want to
ignore some things. Ideally you have perfect collimation coming in,
which would be a line like distribution of all x,y and certain p. This
corresponds to a plane wave. then you have a new wave coming out.

$$\dot{\rho}=\{H,\rho\}$$

H(x+

The desnity matrix is spriitually different from other matrices. It
corresponds to a state rather than a operator, however this state vector
happens to have two natrual indices. To some degree, I believe it is an
abuse of notation. However this mapping is useful in that we may build
denisty matrices out of operaztors.

The one particle density matrix can be constructed from the resultant,
which we know a great deal about. We take a contour integral around the
range of energies (Say less than the chemical potwntial) we want,
perhaps with a weighting factor (such as a boltzmann factor
$e^{-\beta(\lambda-\mu)})$

$$\rho=\oint Gw(\lambda)d\lambda$$

In the context of many body, the Green function

$$iG(x,t,x',t')=<0|T[\psi(x,t)\psi^{\dagger}(x',t')]|0>$$

is evidently a stand in for the one-particle denisty matrix.

$$\rho_{1}(x,t,x',t')=<0|\psi^{\dagger}(x,t)\psi(x',t')|0>$$

In the schordinger picture, the one particle matrix is gotten by?

$$\rho_{1}(x,x')=\int d\{x_{n}\}\psi^{\dagger}(\{x'_{n}\})\psi(\{x_{n}\})\sum_{i}\delta(x'-x'_{i})\delta(x-x_{i})$$

Basically, it pre does all the useless integrals that you'd need to do
anyway if you're asking only one particle type questions (average
energy, position, etc., not correaltions between energies positions
etc.)

The one particle density classdically is the marginalized distribtuion
of each of the particles added together.

$$p_{1}(x_{n})=\int d\{x\}p(\{x\})\delta(x-x_{n})$$

$$\rho=\sum_{n}p(x_{n})$$

Hence the desnity function is the number density and not a porblability
distribution.

Conceptually We start in the ground state

$$\rho=|0><0|$$

and then compress into $\rho_{1}$. However getting the actual
interacting ground state is a bitch.Hence comes in perturbation theory.
Direct perturbation theory of $\rho$ is never done. The adibatic trick
is used universally combined with the time ordered formalism that plays
nice with diagrammatics.

The Green function has a bit more information in it since it can be
evaluated at two different times.

$$G_{1}=e^{iHt}\rho_{1}e^{-iHt'}$$

I believe this means we get the excitation spectrum.

The noninteracting ground state denisty matrix can be gotten from the
resultant by taking a contour integral that cuts through the chemical
potential (ie, the maximum energy state to include) you want using the
one particle resultant

$$\rho_{1}=\int d\lambda\frac{1}{H_{0}-\lambda}$$

The full time dependant version doesn't change much

$$\rho_{1}=\int d\lambda\frac{e^{i\lambda(t-t')}}{H_{0}-\lambda}$$

Why are Time ordered products so much easier to calculate?

The pushing of hole states in complex plane is because we define a
ground state as filled to a certain level. The reversed energy is
because we have to uninlcude a phase factor we already included.

Ie, insetad of using my contour to define my $\rho_{1}$ I can use the
same contour, but with a nudging function $\epsilon(\lambda)$ on the
bottom to pick up the states I want.

$$\rho_{1}=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}d\lambda\frac{1}{H_{0}-\lambda+i\epsilon(\lambda)}$$

$\epsilon(\lambda)=sign(\lambda-\mu)$ gets me my ground state.

I think those are reaosnable integration limits, but I want to close the
contour in the right way.

If I define

$$\rho_{1}=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}d\lambda\frac{e^{i\lambda(t-t')}}{H_{0}-\lambda\pm i\epsilon(\lambda)}$$

Then depending on the order of the t, I pick up either the upper or
lower poles

Hmmm. If Green function = denisty matrix, and Born green = fourier of
potential, then does denisty matrix approximately = fourier of
potential? Hence for example, denisty in crystal is 1/q\^2 on a grid in
k space. momentum exhange q= ?

11-12-13
--------

Placeholder states

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
H & 0\\
0 & \mu I
\end{array}\right]$$

What this does is it fills up all energy levels below $\mu$before it
fills up the lower block of states for the multiparticle ground state.
Although unphysical because there is no coupling between reservoir and
system and no interpeation given to meaning of rese3rvoir states, seems
like a useful trick. Distills the essnce of connecting a large box. What
does resultant look like for this matrix? A

he lehmann representation gives the spectrum

External Potential matrix

$$V=V\otimes I\otimes I+I\otimes V\otimes I+I\otimes I\otimes V$$

Interaction (U is a sum of 2 kroncker producted terms)

$$$$

$$U=U\otimes I+I\otimes U+?$$

The kronecker notyation is insufficent to describe my needs. Maybe U
with a bracket connecting the pieces?

The point is that it crosses spaces.

$$U=u_{ijkl}\delta_{mn}+...$$

Okay. So the multiparticle resultant is still

$$\frac{1}{H-\lambda}$$

Expansion of trace is vacuum bubble digrams corresponding to energy
calculations.

Expansion of ? is Green function

But now when we expand the multiparticle potential into a geometric
series, we have interesting combinatorics

We have a tenency to expand the matrix elements in the k basis

$$G(\{k\},\{k'\},\lambda)=<\{k\}|\frac{1}{H-\lambda}|\{k'\}>=\sum\frac{M(\{k\},\{k'\})}{\omega_{n}-\lambda}$$

So it is no longe a simple sum of poles like it was in the energy basis,
but any particular choice of k probably picks up all the poles (a random
vector probably has non zero coefficients in the energy basis. A k
vector isn't random, but good enough.).

Any closed loops in a feynman diagram are a trace of a matrix (probably
an infinite one at that).
$\int G(k,k)dk=tr(G)=\sum\frac{1}{\omega_{n}-\lambda}$

So how do we get to the one particle density matrix, or the one particle
resultant? Evaluation in a subspace? The excitation subspace

Perhaps a useful matrix is the full resultant on the full ground state
density matrix

$$G\rho=G|0><0|$$

$$G\rho=\sum_{k''}<\{k'\}|G|\{k''\}><\{k''\}|0><0|\{k\}>$$

Q is a rectangular projection matrix

$$Q=|n>(<n|\sum<ijkl|+permutations)$$

$$\rho_{1}=Q^{T}\rho Q$$
