Boundary condition agnositicism

Matrix pencil

$aK+bC+cT+dI$

linear combintations of different boundary condition matrices

subspace Current = transfer of probaility between two subspaces.

If we use two space-like subspaces, this becomes standard current.

$<a|a>=i<a|H|b>-<b|H|a>$

$\rho_{A}=$projection oeprator on A susbpace. Watch how operator evolves
with time.

overlapness O(t) = $tr(P_{A}(t)P_{B})=tr(e^{iHt}P_{A}e^{-iHt}P_{B})$

$\partial_{t}O=tr(HP_{A}P_{B}-P_{A}HP_{B})$

$$\dot{\rho_{A}}=[\rho_{A},H]$$

$$j_{A\rightarrow B}=P_{A}HP_{B}-P_{B}HP_{A}$$

Projection oerators are easy to put in resolvent form if they are some
set of an eigebaiss.

Off diagonal current elements?

subspace current in momentum subspaces is basically the scattering
ampltiude. Integrated over all time.

$\int dS\cdot j$ form is the one that we use.

Enfrocing boundary conditions via lagrange multiplier

coupling via resolvent?

How many matrices can be put in schur form at once?

current denisty from green's function.

k is associated with currents and boundaries, not momentum

matrix dispersion relation

$\omega=f(k)$

Becomes

$E\psi=H(k)\psi$

Block z transform

current = off diagonal blocks of hamiltonian between subspaces

$<n|\tau|n+1>-<n+1|\tau|n>=j$

Add z to off diagonal blocks. Interpolates between neumann and
dirichlet. All Robins

$$\begin{array}{ccccc}
2+z & 1\\
1 & 2 & 1\\
\\
\\
 &  &  & 1 & w+2
\end{array}$$

$\begin{array}{ccccc}
H & \tau z\\
\tau z & H\\
\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$

$\psi(x+a)=\psi(x)e^{ika}$

$z=e^{ika}$

Bloch boundary conditions. Interpolates between periodic and
antiperiodic. Identical to 1-d magnetic boundary conditions

$$\begin{array}{ccccc}
2 & 1 &  &  & e^{ika}\\
\\
\\
\\
e^{-ika} &  &  & 1 & 2
\end{array}$$

$P_{A}HP_{B}$ is a way to talk about schur submatrices.

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & 0
\end{array}\right]=P_{I}HP_{I}$ and so on. If we make P rectnagular, it
works even better

Under similarity trandformation of $H\rightarrow U^{\dagger}HU$, the
rectangular projection goes under a pseudo similarity transformation

$$P\rightarrow U^{\dagger}P(P^{T}UP)$$

$U_{I}=P_{I}^{\dagger}UP_{I}$

$U^{\dagger}P_{I}U_{I}$

Hence we can talk about invariant properties of schur complements, or
schur complements in basis free form

This also shows how my j operator is related to the Schur operator. If
in bloc shcur form, we would right the subspace current as

$$j=i(B-C^{\dagger})$$

$$j=i(B-C)?$$

Since H is hermitian $B=C^{\dagger}$\... wait\... wut?

$$\partial_{t}P_{A}=[P_{A},H]$$

$$P_{Adt}=P_{A0}+dt[P_{A},H]$$

$$tr(P_{B}(P_{A0}+dt[P_{A},H]))$$ = overlpa after time dt

$$trP_{B}[P_{A,}H]=-tr(P_{A}[P_{B},H])$$

Wait. This is zero since $P_{A}$ $P_{B}$always equal zero? I need to
evaluate this on an actual denisty matrix.

$$j=[B,\rho]$$

$$j=B\rho-\rho C=B\rho-\rho B^{\dagger}$$

SUbspace current is decay rate. Decay rate is rate at which probability
transfers from one subspace to another.

$$j=\frac{i}{\hbar}<\psi|P_{B}HP_{A}-P_{A}HP_{B}|\psi>$$

Green;s function is ideal for grabbing

$$|\psi0>=(P_{A}+P_{B})|\psi0>$$

$\mbox{|\ensuremath{\psi}dt>}$

$$<\psi dt|P_{B}P_{A}-P_{B}P_{A}|\psi0>$$

Galerkin method for scattering. Outside wavefunction goes to infnity, is
asymptotic solution that has correct boundary conditions, parametized by
$k_{in}$, or z. Then has break which goes to zero, coupling it with the
hat functions. Inhomogenous Boundary problem, puts source term on right
hand side. Trouble: inifinite dude is not noramlizable, could truncate?.
Remove BC via schur complement, inhomogenous becomes k depd enant source
term.
