The Derivative
==============

The derivative is actually an object of geometry. Consider tryeing to
discretize your domain onto some kind of grid (or triangular mesh). Then
you can create a vector with one entry for every grid point. The natural
way to find a derivative is to subjtracted values at neighboring points
and divide by the distance between them.. In 1-d this corresponds to
taking a finite difference. But where do we place these values? They
seem to belong equally to either grid point. Really, geometrically they
seem to belong to the edge between the two points. So that is what the
derivative does. It maps functions of grids points to functions of
edges, a process that is not transparent in the fully continuous case.
The number of grid points and the number of edges will not be equal in
general. Taking the derivtive on a finite 1-d section discretized into N
points, we have N-1 lines conecting them. In 3-d we actually have
siginificantly more edges than gridpoints, since the derivative is
actually analgous to the gradient, an object that in the continuous case
takes a scalar field into a vector field, which intuitively seems like a
bigger object.

Can we form a derivative on edges?

This is a rather curoius idea for discretiziation. Instead of defining a
vector field at gridpoints, we use the discretized domain itself to
encode the directionality of a vector at a point.

The better starting point is to begin with the intgeral forumlaion of
such things. We want to use fluxes, and line integrals.

The two fundamental identities of line integrals are

$$\int_{a}^{c}=\int_{a}^{b}+\int_{b}^{c}$$

$$\int_{a}^{c}=-\int_{c}^{a}$$

The two fundamental identities of surface integrals are

$$\int_{A\cup B}=\int_{A}+\int_{B}$$

A and B could be two surface or two volumes or a line and a volume or
what have you.

The stokes thoerem and the fudnamental thoerem of calculus have a
generalization

$$\int_{\Gamma}d\alpha=\int_{\partial\Gamma}\alpha$$

So if we want to consider many possible integrlas we could take, we can
break it up into small integrals and then construct the larger complete
integrals by union of domains and then summation.

This is a manner of discretizing for example, the integral form of
maxwell's equations

$$\int E\cdot dS=Q$$

$$\int B\cdot dS=0$$

$$$$

This is the foundation of using the adjecncy matrix in graph theory. The
adjecncy matrix takes absoulte voltagesa at nodes into voltage drops,
which then can be connected by a reiestance matrix into currents in the
edges.

Branch currents are currents defined on edges.

Loop currents are currents defined on faces.

Node Voltages are voltages defined on girdpoints

Voltage drops are defined on edges.

An underspecified differential equaition can be given an explicit
solution if we add extra conditions (gauge conditions if you will), or
if we redefine the field in terms of a potential. Loop currents are a
potential that automatically conserves branch currents at each node
$\nabla\times M=j$, $\nabla\cdot j=0$. Node voltages are a potential
which automatically satisifes Kirchoff's Votlage Loop law.

The language of vector calculus has many of the things we're discussing
in it, except trnaslating. Vector calculus is super powered for work in
3 dimensions, but if we want more generality or more guidance into the
more natural and geometrical manner of description, the alternative of
exterioir calculus is preferred. Using just coordinates you have the
most power of all, but it is also the most complicated.

The nullspace of a matrix is the subspace of those vectors which map to
0. What kinds of functions map to 0? The derivative of a constant. The
curl of a gradient and the divergence of a curl.

The range of a matrix are those vectors whihc can be achieved by an
application of the matrix.

De Rham Homology

The

The projection operator orthogonal to the cycle susbpace can be .

The projection onto the range of A is $A(A^{T}A)^{-1}A^{T}$. One minus
this gives you the porjection orthogonal to it. We can also achieve it
via a gram-schmoidt procedure

The homology subspace,

The cycles are effectively shift vector. You may add any cycle to shift
your daomin in a certain way. FOr points, this can move your point to
the left or right. For curfaces you can extend your surface by one
triangle.

The betti number is the difference of rank of two nearby dirivative
opartors. Or it is the rank of the homogloy subspace.

Altan makes a good point. In 2d that the curvature integrates to 2pi
seems trivial$\left(\right)$

The gauss bonnet thoerem

curvature defined on edges between tweo faces. Measures how much surface
normal changed

Parallel trnasport

The dual mesh. The hodge dual takes us to a mesh that is similar but
dual. Dual networks and dual graphs. Voronoi and wginer seitz. In the
cintiuum limit the dual mesh will coincide with the primal mesh.

Every edge hjas a rotation operator associated with it, that will take a
vector over the edge (spin matrices? It will be $U_{2}U_{1}^{-1}$ so it
is another sort of derivative op. Every face has the roation required to
turn the z vector into its normal? Then the derivative of this
trnasformation is the parallel transport. dicretization on the Gauss
map). The claim is that this should live on the dual. This is clearly a
potential to define a roation to every face, since it is irrelevant., or
you could use the transformation that will take the x,y,z normal axes to
the edges?

The location map takes nodes to their position. The deirvative of the
map gives the displacement map

Or curvature lives at the node, it is the sum of the angles attached to
that node. On flat plane this is 2pi. Angular defect of

curvature is a scalar function on the manifold, hence morse thoery
applies to it

The vector as a derivative makes me think that vectors ought to be , or
a vector field ought to be defined as $A\partial$, where partial goes
from ecedges to points, but A goes from points to edges. Or should
partial go from points to edges and A goes from edges to edges? Vectors
are operators. Vectors are directional derivatives. derivatives along a
parametization. Then the Lie bracket is the same as a green's idneity
bracket. It is a test of hermiticty.

A should perhaps be diagonal. As in it is a straight up function. Making
it a full matrix seems kind of questionable as per the rlation to
vectors asyou yo can mix very disparate edges.

$X^{T}Y-Y^{T}X$ would work.

$$\begin{array}{ccccc}
X & \partial\\
\partial^{T} & Y\\
\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$$

$q\nabla\cdot(p\nabla)-p\nabla\cdot(q\nabla)$ is the lie bracket. Which
is very similar to standard green's construction for laplacian

What if we have disjoint points with no edges between them? well, we
wouldn't weant vectors on those points anyhow. So point vectors = edges
functions (low rank edge ioperators?), or operator vectors (vector
fields) equal fucntions from points to edges.

Impedance or current is a vector field? admittcance is vector field on
dual mesh

An integral curuve is the set of vectors that is achieved by
$(I+X)^{n}x_{0}$ so this subspace is the integral curve. It has kind of
soft edges. In the continuum this becsomes the expoentnial map.

A point on a face can be descrbied quite natrual;ly using barycentric
coordinates

The cruvature tensor is given by travsering a small loop and seeing how
the vector changes. The lie b5acket occurs due to the possiblity of the
two edges of the loop failing to meet.

Curvature on simplices, take a vector on one of the faces next to the
face of interest and transport it around the face. This idea uses the
idea of complete rotational vectors attached to a face. Then we could
define face metrics, a matrix on each face that tells you how to product
them. the covarant derivative would then be a finite difference with the
christoffel symbol being the finite difference of metrics.

The chrsitoffel symbol connects how bases on different faces are related
to each other. sort of an inter-face metric.

$$C=\begin{array}{ccc}
e_{1}\cdot e_{1}'\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$$

More fudnamentla is the porjection operator onto the face subspace. Then
C is the multplication of two adjcent subspace projection ops.

Actually, this function by itslef will parallel transport a vectors
coordinates. It is a function of edges that connects the prime face to
the original face.

The covraint finite difference is $a-Cb=a-b+(I-C)b$. Thus C-I is the
chirstoffel symbol.

$C^{-1}$takes you back the other direction of course.

$$ABCDEF=R$$

Where R is the curvature tensor that belongs to a face? Actually, it is
unclear which direction and whihc connection matrix to start with. In
the continuous case, the face specifies the look u,v so this is a
curvature tensors with u and v undertsood.The trace of this object seems
fairly well deitimined. As does the determinant. Taking this up to
higher dimensions rather than surfaces (which is what I'm implicity
visualizing) may require more thought.

Take a product all the way around a vertex of these connection matrices

In the co0ntinnum limit this matrix fgoes to identity so

$$\frac{1}{dx}C-I=covariantdeirvative$$

In higher dimesnions, we want to define local euclidean spaces in
volumes and trsport them thorugh N-1 deimsional faces.

In some sense chern numbers are to berry phase the euluer numbers are to
gauss bonnet thoerem and curvature.

Berry phase is a complxified version of cruvature.

We can parametized porjection operators. One parameter is the porjection
integral for the resultant (E). If we can make the E contour large
enough that it never crosses the other vectors for all k values in
question, no level crossing. the rest of the parameters are adiabatic
parameters (k).

o if we integrate berry phase over an entire brillouin zone, that is
like integrating curvature over a pshere or tours, which is
topologically constrained.

Integrations of berry phase = polairzation, hall conductivty, regular
conductivity?

Berry phase is a closed sequency of porjection operators similar to how
parallel trnasport i approximately projection onto adjacent faces.

To each face we can define a porjection operator that takes the vector
to that face. In the limit of small curvature per face.

trace log = log det on the sequence.

block homotopy schur complements and ground state behavior

semicalssical motion/conduction is an adibatic concept, the slow
adjustmest of the wavefunction thogouh the birllouin zone. The E
integral porjection can be taken around the band energies band
projection oeprator. This works for polarization. We slowly turn E on
(and off?).

If we can put the qunaitity in berry phase form

The most elegant formulation of gauss bonnet must use definiitons of
cruvature of all vaietry. It hsould be defined on the full space of
edges, points, and faces.

The porjection operators for each space. edges, faces etc. computing
sequences of these porjection operators would give parallel trnasport.
We cna use intrinics porjection or extrinisic embeeing projection.

projecting around a curve = $\prod\cos(\theta_{n,n+1})$. In the limit
the changes in angle become small so coine is expanded and become
$1/2\int\Delta\theta^{2}$.

$(d+\delta)$ makes no sense ezcept on the expanded space. Then it is
basically the expecteted adjointization of nonadjoint ops, off diagonal
trasnposes.

Gluing is a low rank update to the boundary operator.

heati equation smooth of surface. Take curvature nd let it disffuse. The
toal curvature is an integral invariant under this flow. Yet eventually,
the only vectors left are the null vectors. What does heat flow on a
torus do?

Inherently complex and anlytic functions do not enjoy being discretized.
I'm rubbing up against the analytic properties of green's functions
again. The grid hamiltonian makes perfect sense, until you realize it is
a complex function. Then you need parametized hamiltonians of the
momentum-esque quantity k.

The SVD

If you had mutiple complex parameters, you could build a porjection onto
the space of discussion for each or a hamiltonian and eigenvectors for
each. This is the equivlanet of building the tangent vectors to a
surface for all spots in the sruface. However, the parametized
homailtonian space does not necessarily equal tangent vectors. Is this a
fiber bundle? An operator associated with every point on a manifold, all
of which work in the same linear space. Then we can compare nearby
eigenbases.

Notes on Kane
-------------

k is a parameter that has a hamiltonian for each.

berry connection = vector potential

Berry phase = flux. yet since k is possibly complex probably shouyldn't
use simpliex method striaght up.

berry curvature = B

Polarization in 1-d is berry phase

Adot = E = sigma current

Pdot = current

dimerizing makes short long short long.

schriffer heeger model. It is periodic with basis. Gives you 2 bands.

Domain wall surface state?

winding number gauss bonnet in 1-d = polarization is quantized?

2d TKNN is gauss bonnet in 3d, intrinisc curvature = euler
characteristic. brillouin zone is a tours

Notes on PIRSA lecture
======================

In ladnau gauge, we can draw bands as a function of ky, but ky is
basically the mean x positon, you we have bands as a function of x

Berry curvature is somehow like Magnetic field in K space. dx/dt =
$\Omega\times E$

Actual velocity plus drift velocity

locaization. Consider a 1-d potential that is fairly smooth. Then in the
valleys we develop localized states, i
