Wiener Khintchin-

Autocorrelation \<=\> spectral power denisty

Why is the average spectral power denisty an object of interest?

Could take DFT version. We have an ensemble of signals. Perhaps
chebyshev version? Does chebyshev have a convolution thoerem?

Chebyshev is halfway between monomials and trig functions. The
composition property of monomials and the product to sum properties of
trig

$\ln(ne^{ix})$ $e^{in\ln(x)}$$x^{in}$

The feynman kac is the total porability ditrbution

The differential form

$\Delta x=\sigma dt-\Gamma dt$

Where sigma is random vairable is the conditional probability form
$P(x_{n+1}|x_{n})$

for first order schrodinger - green function for sources is identical to
green funcion for boundary terms

$$\begin{array}{ccccc}
1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1\\
-1 & 1\\
 & -1 & 1\\
 &  & -1 & 1\\
 &  &  & -1 & 1
\end{array}$$

This is another interesting deriviative operator. Gives the average
value over the interval + the derivative. Similar to necessary
conditions for neumann problem (ie might make T matrix non singular)

Ballistic (coherent) amplifiers - nanotransistors, klystron

Ballistic diode? Might be impossible for maxwell's demon reasons.

The quantum of conductance is really the minimum internal resitance of a
source.

Impedance matching. Amplifiers amplify signal, but they also buffer.
Ballistic buffers.

Gain bandwidth. Suppose you have a noisy channel with a perfect or
ballistic feedback channel. Also, what does information thery have to
say about asking for clarification?

quantum - statistical correspoance. Is there a form where every thoerem
in one has an analog in the other? Quantum carnot engines, statsitical
interference, etc.

quantum is phase space sum. statistical is log of phase space product.
$\sum\ln(1+x)\approx\sum x$

An inverse analysis may apply to some mechanisms but not include others.
The data due to unintended mechanisms (incoherent scattering, multiple
elastci scatterring .,etc) may be considered to be error terms + actual
random error. Including more and more mechanisms will almost certainly
increase the condition number of your analysis. There is probably a
balance achieved at some point in the analaysis. The fourier born
approximation is pretty good maybe

Does condition number correlate to heuristic easiness of the analysis?

Density matrix scattering thoery

$S^{\dagger}\rho_{o}S=\rho_{f}$

$a^{T}\left[\begin{array}{c}
a_{\rightarrow}\\
a_{\leftarrow}
\end{array}\right]$The transmission line denisty matrix. Will be
function of s (freqeuncy). Function of s and s'?\... No I think just s.
For 3-d will be a single function of s and q. Unless its just the
boundary values into the scattering region. Then it is a function of
s,l,m, with l and m taking the place of left arrow and right arrow.
