Proton bonding. In structural phase transition, there is no deifnite
spot that the nucelii blenogs, hence I would think the wavefunction
would elongate and become bonding

The macrscopic field is like inlcuding only the first band as a
possiblity.

RPA as the nonlinear op amp method?

One could anticipate that one could solve a crystal where the adibatic
role of the electrons and ions are interachanged and then match the
resulting behavior

Why don't excitons form molecules if they are the equilvalent of
hydrogren to some degree?

The big pull away from my readings today:

ions at a plama freqeuncy

$ma=eE$

enx=P

$\omega^{2}=\frac{Z^{2}ne^{2}}{M}$

Phonons = Ionic Plasmons

What adds? What multplies

$\epsilon=1+\chi$

I would think $\chi$ would add\... maybe. Hmmmmm maybe not\... Depends
on some definitions. If you assume that electrons and ions do not
interact at all as your sdtarting point, then yes. I believe so. Mean
field type theory. However, you may instead assume that the ions
polarize in response to the total electron shielded field.

$$P=\chi_{shieldion}\epsilon_{el}E$$

ions shielded by electrons

electrons shielded by ions

Amusingly, if we removed the crystal by the bloch method, then the
exterior of the crystal would have the negative of the crystal
potential. especially for the semi inifnite crystal. Seems like we've
got 2 dual problems. Like a babinet's principle sort of thing. Like a
kramer kronig modulate by step function kind of thing.

Do impurity states always lie in the gaps? smooth Impurity bound states
do, since free bound states lie beneath the continous specturm and I
would expect that the band takes the place of the continuous specturm.
Okay, so the on the edge there are 4 things. Left, crystal, right
crystal, full crystal, $L+R=F$ "edge impurity" ie non bulk properties of
edge. If surface is a mirror plane, we might be able to do extra good.
We moight expect the edge eletornic and ionic strucutre to be highly
related to the bulk, but expecting them to be rigidly equal is way too
much.

Bonding between planets? Van der waals between planets?

Is coulomb force bonding between objects with photon taking place og
efectron?

is a polarization pump possible? Polarizes, then discharges electrons,
relaxes, then polarizes? Parametric oscillation of phonons.

Total current of a wavepacket is carrier current + inteference current.

$(\sum\psi)\nabla(\sum\psi)=\sum\psi\nabla\psi+\sum_{i\ne j}\psi\nabla\psi$

COnservatio noof probabiltiy means that ultimately current cannot go on
forever. Topology ensues? Particle paths cannot be cut is the classical
version perhaps. Homotopy.

On a cylinder, there are wnding number around cylinder is homototpy

The topology trip up is the impossibilty of particles moving
instananeously (or outside the light cone is relatvistic terms) That is
why time reversed states and time froward cannot be continuously
deformed into one another.

Also two paths that are traveling in opposite directions are not
equivlanet to each other. Or maybe they are. an electron travelling
backwards in time becomes a hole travelling forwards

Homotopy is geometrcial (nonlinear first order) differential equations.
i.e. the equations of surfaces. Newton's laws. Paths. Homotopy of x(t)
heisenberg path matrix?

Hoomogly is PDE. Quantum. Probability, density

Canonical transfromations of 1-d curves? 1-d curve as interesction of
two surfaces. Standrd contact on two surfaces gives two new surfaces
which interesect at new locations.

A plane wave in a box box outght to have a decay rate proprtional to
v/L=$\frac{n\hbar\pi}{L^{2}}$ since this is the charetcerstic time it
takes to traverse the box and hit an edge. It will decay into other
states in a manner that will depend drastically on

Is the t

My conception of using a huge vector makes Doing T transformations and
such pretty easy. the nabla is p. I'm not sure where the constraint that
they are complex conjugates of each other comes in. This is very Dirac
eq esque. Another road to dirac?

$$\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{\uparrow}\\
\psi\downarrow\\
\psi^{dagger}\\
\psi^{\dagger}\\
\nabla\psi
\end{array}$$
