For homology we can place matrix fields on the grid. This means we need
to do blockwise gaussian elimination

$(1+tA)\otimes(1+tA)\otimes...$ Is a generating function that gives the
Noninteracting boson hamiltonian as the coefficient of t.

$\frac{1}{\lambda^{N}}(\lambda+A)\otimes(\lambda+A)\otimes...$ can be
instantly inverted from single particle green's function

$\sum\frac{z^{k}}{k!}(1+tA)\otimes^{k}$

$(1+tA)\otimes(1-tA)\otimes...$ gives the fermi hamiltonian

$(1+tA-A/t)\otimes(1-tA)\otimes...$

$(1+tA-wA)\otimes(1-tA)\otimes...$

These sorts of things occurs in the charecteristic equation. If I can
formulate bosonic expectations in terms of characterstic eq of
1-particle

$(1+(z_{1}+z_{2}+z_{3})A+(z_{1}z_{2}+z_{1}z_{3}+..)U)^{-1}$as a
multiparticle resultaqnt. Symmettric or antisymmetric polynomials. A and
U can't be summed

$(1+(z_{1}A\otimes I\otimes+z_{2}...)+(z_{1}z_{2}U\otimes I+...)^{-1}$

$(z^{2}I\otimes I+U)\otimes^{N/2}$no not quite. This is pariwise by
twos. I need all possible pairs.

Insetad of a pole grabber, the resultant as a generating functions?
Generates powers of A geometric serives

Charatcerstic equation generatures symmetric polynomials.. traces of
antisymmetric exterior products?

Generating function kronocker porduct can do cool things. I can get
things that aren't kronecker porducts from kronecker porducts by
collecting approirate powers.

$((I+tA)\otimes(I+tA))(I\otimes I+zU)\otimes^{N/2}$

$\oint dX\frac{1}{A-X}$

durecitonal derivative. Define rgular old vector on a face of simplex.
The the covariant dierative is associated with each edge on the face.
The last index is not a vector index, but is instead given by each each.
Maybe i mean Christoffel Symbol. Or transfer matrix. The matrix that
transfers you from one face to the next is an edge function. Or we could
define a normal vector for each face.

loops on dual mesh = face on dual mesh

cristoffel on uncruved space = imagine a cockammaie mesh where we have
different bases defined in different simpices.

Simplicial Altas - Using the mesh and the dual mesh we can create an
atlas that covers the entire object smoothly. The object is
differomorphic (god I make myself sick) to the simplicial complex if we
use the dual mesh to avoid the nasty regions.

The important part of the minus sign in the derivative is that it is an
inverse.

$$\begin{array}{ccccc}
A & A^{-1}\\
 & B & B^{-1}\\
\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$$

So under change of orientation, matrix defined in face becomes its
inverse?

For abelian groups = multplication by scalar = mutiple addition.

na=a+a+a+a

for multplicative group (or in multplicative notation)

a\^n=aaaaaa

group blocks gaussian elimination.

Possible limits to continuum:

let a =\> 0. This gives discrete energies that go to inifty, letting L
go to inifty then shrinks the gaps

let L =\> infty

L going too inifty with still finite a should give us a single band of
energies in brilloiun zone pi/a. Decreasing a by 2 gives a second band.
We can thus build up free states from band states if that seems good. or
conitnuous variation of a increases the amplitude and wazvelength of the
single band spectrum until we are just in the E = k\^2 region.

In what sense are a large number of poles filling the region between the
band edges like a branch point?

Pole desnity ramains constant such that The loop integral round the
entire strcture still gives 1 - eigenbasis remains a decomposition of
the idenity

Radon transform on simplices. Taking a line integral in projecting a
coform into a basis of line integral vectors that correspond to unending
lines. Do this enough and youi might get a complete basis at which point
you can determine the function from its porjections.

Heavy Fermion - If the electron is as heavy as the nuclei, does that
mean we have a gas of quasi nuclei moving in an electron lattice
(wigner)? Well,, the elctron becomes heavy via its interaction with
other electrons and the nuclei\... soooo\... untangling all that is a
ridiculous mess. Plasmons become phonons and phonons become plasmons.
Nuclei cooper pair with plasmon coupling.

12-6-13
=======

$G_{0}T=GV$

Consider using frobenius norm of = sum of squares of eigenvalues

Mathematica code
