Inifnite cointinued fraction expansions by iteration

$$G^{-1}=a+bG$$

Leads ultimately to solution of quadratic eq. I think some of the Dyson
equation are of this form (Vertex equations?)

I've said that cintuned fraction can be done with projective coordinates
and matrix mutlpication quite nicely

$$$$

Impedance

Is there a vairional formulation of the schur complemnet? Some kind of
legednre transfromation

$$Q=j^{T}Ax-xLx-b^{T}x$$

where A is arecatngular projective matrix. Where x is not projected, we
solve the orgiinal problem when we try to minimize this function. where
A does attach x to j, we get a matrix that puts j in terms of x. In this
form, j is sourcelike. If we want j to be field like we change things a
little.

$$Q=j^{T}ALx-xLx-b^{T}x$$

$$Q=(Aj^{T}-x)Lx-b^{T}x$$

$$Q=(Aj^{T}-x)L(x-Aj)-b^{T}x$$

Okay that last one makes a lot of sense. x has enough freedom to
compenstae for any amount j fukcs things up, hence we still achieve
exact true minimum. This extension to the variational method

$$Q=xLx-\rho xx$$

$$tr(L(xx-rho))$$

The effective one particle function can be turned into a many particle
function. We have not made any ansatz as to the varitional form of x as
in hartree fock.

$$A=\begin{array}{ccccc}
I & 0\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$$

This form will perform a schur complment.

Now one doesn't have to use a linear extrrapolation of j. It could be
nonlinear (convex?). For example, we could make our guess as j\*v where
v is sort of our ground tstae vector.

A boundary condition paramter (asymptotic k) and an energy parameter
specifying a null vector in particular.

Divding into left and right waves bigger operator of psi psibar and the
gradients. We can recombin these things into maximal left and right
crurent functions.

Is wicks' thoerem the cauchy binet theorem in regards to fermions?

We've seen that schur complements arise in partial integration of a
guassian. But what if we add in new vectors and totally integrate the x.
We could do this with a delta function, which is a very sharp gaussian,
so we can also do this by adding a quadratic term in the exponent. This
becomes tychonoff regulariazation

$$\lambda(x-Aj)^{2}$$

In terms of perior estimates, we think that he initi8al distribution is
rooted aorund zero. When we let lambda go to inifnity, the complete x
integration becomes efftectively

The mean field approach uses a field variable. We can get an effective
hamiltpninan directly using

$$s-<m>$$

directly in the exponent. leaving \<m\> as a parameter. THen the best
mean field can be found via minimzation.

The term mean field is double edged. On one hand we mean a mean field
being the same as an external field. On the other hand, we are saying
the field is almost its mean. (fluctations low)

Assuming that the free energy depends only upon the local mean (or that
the mean is homogenous) fails. We could assume that it depends of the
higher moments $<m(x)m(x')>$and so on. In totality, this means that
$F=F(Z,T)$, where Z = $<e^{-J(x)m(x)}>$the moment generating function.
However F = ln(Z).

Is the turn on of a diode a phase transition? COdnuctance as order
paramater. Current as order parameter.

The theory of amplification. Inference. Given two distributions that are
difficult to sepearte (i.e. nearby delta functions under convolution
(addition of random noise) become nearly overlapping gaussians), build a
conditional probability dynamics function that makes them easy to apply
inference to (\# of samples needed to achievev certain likelihhod or
something). This framerwork is fairly gebneral. Chemical potential =
voltage = statisitcal parameter in distribution of wire =\> put thorugh
some transistor device = \> somethng easier to discern (larger signal).
A measurment conditional probabilty. Given state of electron, what does
meter read. This function stays fixed. This is incorrect. The complete
distrubtion does not collapse like this because they affect one another.
Stiffness of the meter = $P(x,y)-P(x|y)p(y)$ perhaps integrated over y.
To include dyanmics, we could use ensembles elvolved according to some
hamiltoninan. I'm thinking circuits, but this framework works for optics
as well.

Therein lies the rub. The stiffness of circuit theory may be equivlanet
to the blowup ness in optics. Too energetic of light bklows up your
sample.

To study quantum, what if we attach an oscillator to a sequency of more
and more massive oscillators.

random phase apprixmation
$<\phi^{n}>=<(\int e^{ikx}\phi(k))^{n}>\approx$

A fluctuation expansion. Rayleigh thoery of sound. The interference
terms average to zero

$$<\phi(x)^{n}>\approx<\phi(k)^{n}>$$

$$<\phi(x)^{n}>\approx<\phi(k)>^{n}$$

Is a manner of turning quartic part into a quadratic part.

This is statistcial field talk

in first qunatized talk, I think we are factoring the desnity matrix

Is it possible to go halfsies on denisty matrices? part of the system in
denisty matrix and part in vector. perhaps if we mixed daggers and non
dagger states in the vector, then it is somewhat like a denisty matrix.
even though it is actually a vector

The electron density is the bosonic esque part of fermions I think, so
thuis is the denisty matrix

Plane wave states describe olon range behavior, delta function states
desacribe short range, so the wave linke are good for collective
behabvior (plasmon) and lump states are good for qusiparticles. The
factorization into half plane wave tstaes and half lump statesmeans we
reduce the number of electrons for every plasmon we introudce. However
in the grand canonical formalism, this doesn't matter much, since
particle number isn;'t fixed. Hence in a mutliparticle formalism, the
suggestion is that the desnity matrix can be factored. The rho of k is
also the Delta in BCS.

$$\rho=\rho(x)\wedge\rho(k)$$

$$NH\wedge I\wedge I\wedge I\wedge I$$

is the nonintracting hamiltonian $$N/2U\wedge I\wedge I\wedge I$$

$$(I+tH)_{*}$$

This is the characterstic polynomial. (slightly disguised). Hence the
characteriatic polynomial generates noninteracting Fermioninc things.

If generating functions are powerful, then matrix generating functions
must be even more so.

U operates on something else entirely though.

The derivative of such a thing

is the 4 particle interaction.

How do you multiply wedge products?

$$<\phi(x)^{4}>\approx<\phi(x)^{2}><\phi(k)^{2}>$$

There is a linear matrix that takes full kronecker rpodct space to wedge
rpoduct space, although such a matrix will be huge.

$$(I+tH)_{*}$$

$$\begin{array}{cccc}
\\
\\
\\
\\
\end{array}$$

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
V & \nabla\cdot\\
\nabla & I
\end{array}\right]$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi\\
\nabla\psi
\end{array}\right]=0$

$\psi$ is almost a veloctiy potential (it by and large is in some
eikonal approximation)

or extend to the full

$\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi\\
\nabla\psi\\
\psi^{\dagger}\\
\nabla\psi^{\dagger}
\end{array}\right]$

leastsquares with qudartic constraint become eigenvalue problems under
legendre multiplier.

We want the minimum and maximum current under the constraint of a)
saisfying the differential euqation, and B) having unit norm.

I suspect the 2 lagrange multipliers somehwere in this problem become E
and k.

SOme worries: will maximum current try to get expoentnial solutions?

Better, minimize energy subject to normalization and current contraints.
lagrange mult on norm becomes E, just like usual. contraint on current
becomes k, because kv has dimensions of energy. Seems nicely realtivsitc
actually.

$$\psi H\psi-p^{\mu}\psi^{\dagger}\partial_{\mu}\psi$$

where partial t = 1 and with some appropriate symmetrizations and
daggers and such

actually, we don't just want the integral of the current to be the same
everywhere. We want its value to be the same. So might have to update
multiplier to multiplier field. Or perhaps just the edge current?
evauate j only at the edge of the domain

This object is more akin to a lagrangian than a hamiltonian since we're
adding a vp term.

What does the largange multiplier obeying a symmettry group mean?

taking stationary points instead of minimum gives a multivalued
fucntion.

The variational formulation of schur complements. Either I add a forcing
term to do a legendre or mean value transfromation, or I split up thew
minimization into two steps, subspace 1 and subspace 2.

impedance is the dirichlet to neumman map. So is the S-Matrix

pick a boundary point. Solve the free case on one side and the ineriior
problem on the other.

The schur complement ideterminant s a method of minor expansion

$Y-\Delta$trnaasformations are duality transfromations face by face and
node by node

Hopefully the entwining of the s parameter makes the original network
recovereable. But we need to fit a function to itfrom our data. So we
can'ty overfit.

Rayleigh scattering blurs details of the object. the cross section
becomes 4 pi r\^2. However is rayeligh scattering from a torus
different?

Scattering from two delta functions.
