Totally incoherent source = infinite uncorrelated planar source

Lpalace equation = value equals spherical angle average. comes form
1/r\^2 potential from dipole sheet.

This can be used to put random dipole sources into AA correalltion
function using spherical angles

pont to point teansfromation = gauge transformation. Galilean shift.
Accerelating reference frames = similar to E field in A

Impedance matching

Fermi Johnson Noise

Photonic Shot Noise in blacbody

bouynd states in impedance method? Real impedance versus complex
impedance

Classical degrees of freedom as quantum correlations. Use green's
function of classical harmonic oscillator (basically the same as the
correlation function of quantum). Some sort of ehrenfest theorem for
correlators?

Fermionic Grassmann algebra

$\frac{\partial}{\partial\theta}=d$ the exterior derivative hence
$d^{2}=0$

$\int d\theta$ is integration over a unit point.
$\int d\theta_{1}d\theta_{2}$is iegration over line connecting 1 and 2.
Chain space $\int_{12}$. $\int_{\theta_{1}}\int_{\theta_{2}}$ might be
better notation to match exterior calcuus better.

$\theta_{1}\theta_{2}=dx_{1}\wedge dx_{2}$?

So the labels represent points. combinations represent edges faces etc.
$\int_{1}dx_{1}$evaluates value at a point then? We might be working
porjectively in the sense that a line is projective space represents a
point.

The wkb green's function. WKB expandsin powers of hbar.

COntinuous spectrum = branch cut because denisty of states is found by
taking difference of sides.

WKB = apporximate discrete spectrum as a branch cut

Might want to change coupling point as function of energy for impedance.
Coupling point natrually wants to be at classical turning point.

Vertex function and correlation functions as nonlinear green's funcitons

Green's function gives response conder a potential term $\psi[V(t)]$ or
$\rho[V(t)]$ might be consdered a nonlinear green's function since it is
a nonlinear functional of V. Such a function would be useful. Takes a
lot of complexity within it. $x[V(t)]$. $\delta x/\delta V$

$S[V]$

The legendre transformation

Dicrete Manifolds. Monfidlo function space = big vector. Chart functions
= porjections onto smaller spaces that have kron sturcutre. Sum of all
porjections must cover entire manifold space. Chart deriatives and
vector fields give manifold vector fields
