Statistical quantum mechanics: Posulate of random phase. The partiion
function defintion may not allow us to play with this. What does
topological consdiierations do to this postulate? All topological clases
equally likely?

Exchange staitistics vertex

Adiabatic feynman digarams track berry phase (Toplogical phase tracking
network)

Renoormzation of prtition functions and Ports: The parition functiion
given its surroundings. The chemical optential parameter allows us to
use long range forces. The thermodynami functions with paramters are the
equivlaent of port functions. Theysummarize behavior. The connections
between them are the coupling constraint (v1+v2 = vtot). Given
constraints, maximize total entropy solves circuit. In terms of flow,
entropy flow in must equal entropy flow out for equilbirum (kirchoff
current law). or maybe $dS/dt=\sum Fdx/dt$. fluctuation dissipation
coupling. The ising model really might appreciate being able to hook up
external. Calulating the port function $P(spin|boundaryspin)$ is easy.
Flipping between diffetrent types of conditional probability similar to
switching between V and I and such. The transfer matrix method is the
ABCD parameter method. In 1-d, two ports multiply to give same port. In
higher dimension, two ports combine to give port with more external
legs. By Sclaing/decimation we can reduce number of legs. Or we can
couple using continuous boundary functions from the get go. Continuous
boundary porbability functional. Porbability of inside given as linear
function of porbability on outside edge.

Gibbs pircniple of virtual subdivision.

Boundary impedance

Z\[P(B)\] or Z\[m(B)\] or P(m\|m\_B)

Nonlinear functional of boundary function

Scaling - P(m\|m\_B) -\> P(m\|m\_b)p(m\_b)

Resistros in 2d parallel cnacels series. one divide by N one multiplies

Scaling + nonlinear transfer function combination rules

Network of transistors/ network of diodes - what is operating point?
Massive nonlinear networks. Computers. Could use such network to quickly
simulate ising model which simulates euclidean path integral -\> quantum
computer?

Renomralization with no staitstical mechanics

Linearized analysis around operating point

$\psi$ d$\psi$ is most like the ipmedance matrix instead of V1 V2
rearrange to V deltaV

Two port netowrk may have extra current loops running underneath them
and above them. In Peridioic hookup what happens?

Galilean transfromations as gauge transfromations. Hence Adiabtic
acceleration is a gauge potential

"Cluster expansion" for fermions =\> effective bosons.

Cut in relative coordinates -\> whenever cross increase winding number
by one.

Block impedance - multiply matrix by block impedance parameter.
$\psi_{Block1}=z\psi_{block2}$

Winding number. If ANY wavefuncction expressed as complex variable x+iy
has winding number on the exterior, there must be zeros in the inteiror.
Many particle version =\> . Many particles live on complex manifold

How to have circulatory velcocity in abscence of vector potential.

Self conisstently, isn't vector potential/magnetic field zero in perfect
quantum gas (like supercodncutor) introudcing B field makes counter
currents run

### Compex anifolds

Charts from open subsets of Cm to the manifold. Maps from chart to
charts are hollmorphic (analytic? obey cauchy rimenann equations)

Examples include conformal maps from C1 to C1 (which is the same as R2
to R2). Riemann Surfaces? Branches are different charts of larger
surface. No implied metric or embedding, but has differentiable topology
certainly. Well, branch points make it not a manifold (Beause our
definition of mnaifold is stupid and simple, but keeps us safe)

Stereographic map

Complex Lattice (elliptical functions? Streographic equivlanet for
torus?).

Modular group. Unit detemrinant matrices with integer coeffcients. They
are related to lattices in hyperbolic geometry

The set of unit detemrinant matrices with integer coefficients, plus or
minus 1 (makes it prohjectivy). These generate transformations between
equivlaent lattice generating vectors. space of all possible unit cells?

SO

J is important. It is a tensor that in some sense = multiplication by i.
FOr holomoprhic vector fields, it literally is multplication by i since
they are eigenvectors of it.

Hermitian metric - Like finding the expectaion vlaue of a hermitian
operator. Only nonzero when connecting a regular and an adjoint.

Spectrasl lines and denisty of states.. Convvolution wrt energy of
denisty of states?. Inetragate spatially qwith repect to dipole moment
to get spectral inesnity. Spread of lines.

accelrating/rrotasting reference frame $e^{iJ\omega t}$

THoguhts
--------

What is the equivlanet of the indepdant particle slater determinant
(symmettrized sum state) for anyons? I suppose it must be a sum over the
exchange group with appriprate phase factors out front.

Recollection of first order perturbation thoery to get new hamiltonian

$H_{1}=|\psi'><\psi'|(E+E'g)$

Then continue to work with this. Does this bootstrapping get you
further?

I mean that IS what we're doing to some degree in fancier calculations.
The green's function is found to some order and then inverted to get
effective hamiltonians.

Term counter term analogy - speartion between pertrubation part and
original hamiltonian.

I htink this is inifnite continued fraction instead of power series.
Which are better, basically.

consider geometric series

$(a-1)x=b$

maybe not

Probability rate is equovlaent of power in

Power and Fermi Golden Rule

Impedance matching and freqeuncy matching. Higherest power per force
ampltidue is achieved b matching frequncy to reosnant freqnucy of
oscillator

Widning number derivation shows that There must be solutions to equation
within region when we have map from space to complex plane.
Generalization or method of getting fundanetal thoere mof algebra.
Degeneracy is where determinant and derivative of determinant
(resultant?) both vanish

Topologically required critical points?

Resoannt scattering. The correct porblem to consider is spontaenous
emission from a well lightly coupled to the outside. Tunnelling when
you're actually below the surface, but when you're slightly above, it is
better to consider the damped oscillator, squirting its energy.

In what sense can coupled oscillators be htought of as damped
oscillators? If we cna remove coherence in some way

The oscilattor resistor and superoperators. Consider an LC circuit
connected to a crap ton of other LC circuits. SUperoperator evolve the
correlaion functions?

The N and the 2N correlation functions. porduct of all amplitudes of
different parts of system.

Strong and weak measurement as series expansions of one another.

Two state systems
-----------------

Two energy levels

Spin

Polarization

2x2 hamiltonian possibly weird function of time

Interesting things: Pertubration thoery Rabi oscillations

Degeneracy

Topological requirements of degenracy

adiabatic formulation of wkb possibly

qubits

decoherence and decay

Thoughts
--------

Denisty of states for EM.

Escape rate time bandwidth \> something is good version of henisenberg
for energy time.

Denisty of states/oscillator strength for classical sho? Should have
density of states that sums to \# normal modes. Evolution of correlation
function.

Slowly radiating quantum sho/ Coupling Kron-wise to EM field gives
damping factor. Kron prod = kron sum of empty field states plus filled
field states. Might radiate and come back. This has to be included.

Kramers Kronigs. Escape related to dnity of states? natrual freqeuncy
related to damping

The linearized boltzmann equations. Surely pretty dece for most
situaitions. Hence the scattering factor is ordinarily a nonlinear term
becomes linear.

The excitation becomes damped by the equilbirum distribution.

Is there an anlolgo ytwith light being a suerfuild? The potential
electrostatic part and the raditive scattering part

Bogolyubov treats ground state semiclassically. Equivalent to treating
one harmonic oscillator in a chain of them semiclassially. Or perhaps
treating just one normal mode semiclassically and then rexpanding. HOW
DARE HE. How is this okay? We could use some of my demiclassical
methods. What about in just a tewo scillator system, one of them being
treated classically.

The ewald method and seperation of degrees of freddom into localized in
space and localized in freqeuncy. Plasmons and quasielectrons. This is
the same story as the eqlad particle mesh method. The same story as
Bethe ising model solution, where he uses mean field outside box and
exact shit inside. As such, maybe renormalization group is important for
studying electron plasmon. Some cutoff a(one side of which is
quasielectrons and the other side plasmons) and then what happens as we
tickle cutoff

Proof of equivlaence of ensembles in quantum case. Then off diagonal
elements are irrelevant? Large N limit is diagonal in any basis? -\>
classical. one particle density: Diagonal grows as N, perhaps off
diagonal grows as $\sqrt{N}$due to random phases from individual parts
of system UNLESS something special is going on (supercoductivity,
condensates, etc).

Matrix theorem about diagonal dominance? (in all bases)
$tr(A^{2})-tr(A)^{2}$ perhaps. = all entires\^2 - sum of diagonal \^2
$tr(A^{2})/tr(A)^{2}$

Fermi sphere blocks scattering into sphere. Is it possible to have
localized fermionic blocking? It seems like one particle could never
catch up to another particle that would block it. What if fermi sphere
warped to have a bay (went Concave). Then you'd need a BIG scattering
jump to cross the landmass of the bay. or if the fermi sphere had a
weird empty bubble in the midde of it. (or conversely the fermi sphere
had a weird disonnected little dot outside of it hole cunduction versus
electron conduction) I guess those bubbles would have to lead to
anisotropic behavior unless maybe its appolnian gasket looking. or if
the fermi sphere started pinching. Light pinchges would be a bay. Strong
pinching would be an extra fermi sphere.

A kbT bridge between disjoit fermi spheres will form, depending on how
shallow the disconnection is, smoohting it out until the island isn't
even noticeable.

Even if it doesn't pinch entirely, what prevent a very thin bridge?

genus of fermi object. Fermi torus. Fermi disjoint sphere.

Coherence length magnetic - consder the nonlocal application of force in
fluid and sound. pippard chambers

The coherence length is perhaps a yukawa potential due to effective mass
of vector potential? WORDS MEAN NOTHING ANYMORE.

Spontaneous symmettry breaking.

Because the vector potential gets a mass term, introducing vortices
requirex finite energy. and they come in quanta. Could be useful for
understanding quantum hall better.

A vector potential field gets effective mass under some kind of self
consistent self interacvtion (presolution of electrons in similar manner
to presolution of fluid around cylinder). Apparently ordinary
interactions with regular materials doesn't produce mass terms, porduces
index of refraction and damping terms. The effective mass term isof a
different character. It makes an energy gap for creation of photons
while the others don't.

What if i straight up quantize london equations, removing (presovling or
elimination) j somehow. Does that give these massive photons (probably
not. Meissner effect is not contained in london?) or do I need

Coarsened description of the evolution of $\rho$. A and B sites that are
paired. The denisty matrix can be cesomposed as a direct sum but what is
an effective description of the dynamics in this case. Renoromalizaiton
follows in a self conisatnt self scaling to find fixed points. But you
can also find general trends and power laws as you Increase detail
obscured. You'll build a hierarchy similar to spirit to bbGKY except
that YOu perhaps may maintain the full all correlation coarsened
denisty. The things you don't know and may have to make approximations
for are the detail densities.

$\rho_{coarse}=\rho_{aa}+\rho_{bb}$

$\partial_{t}\rho_{c}=\sum_{i}[H_{i},\rho]$. Nah. Not good eneough.
collapses due to linearity of commutator

$\partial_{t}\rho_{aa}=[H_{aa},\rho_{aa}]+\int dtH_{ab}e^{iH_{bb}\tau}H_{ba}$\...
hmm this is not right,

The pippard length is the phase relaxation length.

Diffusive transport of phase.

A is an effective force on phase.

Slow potentials are radators of plasmons. / radiators of phase

(Since plasmons are close to being phaseons really. Smooth slow
oscillatory modulation of ordinary wavefunctions.)

Interms of phaseons, V potentials are source terms. And its closer to a
diffusive transport equation than it is to a wav equation.

$e^{i\phi(x)}\psi$-\> $\partial^{2}\phi-j\cdot\nabla\phi=V$

The wavefucntion carries an extra bit of phase put on it with the
current. A particlular wav pakcet might have a phase put on it. And then
A puts more on it.

A wavepacket has some kind of weird overall phase, which gets modulated
as it passes through regions of A. sum of wavepackets into denisty
matrix. Whether they have defnite relative phases makes big difference.

Phaseon transport.

phase in equiblibrum takes on all values

$\partial_{t}e^{i\phi}+\frac{j}{\rho}\cdot\nabla e^{i\phi}=V$

Is it the angle that is transported of it is the complex expontential of
the angle.

coherence transport

$\partial_{t}\phi=v\cdot A$

Boltzmann transport of phasons.

$f(x,p,\theta)$ wavepacket distrubtion function. Has relxation length
for phase. Equiblirium distribution has random phase.

$\dot{\theta}=p\cdot v+A\cdot v-i(\frac{1}{\tau}+\frac{v}{l})$

$i\partial_{t}e^{i\theta}=(p\cdot v+A\cdot v+i(\frac{1}{\tau}+\frac{v}{l}))e^{i\theta}$
phasor decay

Phase relaxation legnth and phase relaxation time.

Pippard is a phase relaxation length
