The difference between different interferometer setups.

Given some mathematical description of an interferometer, can I give a
definition of the type of inteferometer? Topology or symmettry
differences? Graphs? Geometrical embedding? Perhas some types are really
the same thing. Or the definitions don't actually mean much

What are the questions of physics? WHat can be measured? In high energy,
it is scattering experiments and scattering crossections. In low energy
it is response functions.We do some macroscopic thing and what comes
out. What are the instruments? The microscope, batteries, voltmeters,
current meters, magnetometers, microscopes, TEM,SEM, AFM, STM, ARPES.
CCDs. Pumping in radio. Changing pressure, volume, measuring force.

The way the solid state experiments are done, the framework to describe
the external probe is a perturbing term in the hamiltonian. $H=f(t)X$.
Is this a sufficient framework? The probes must work bia mean field
thoery. f is a physical thing, therefore it has quantum origin. Yet we
are using a classical value. Another approach might be to set up the
wavfunction in some special way. This feels more accurate for the nature
of tunnelling. We start with an increase of electrons on one side of a
barrier and they have to equilibriate. $<O>[f]$ expectation values of
other operators are then functionals of f. We come back into reality by
finding an O that likely corresponds to something we can measure. In a
full framework, this O must couple in some way to the external
environment. Perhaps it re-radiates. The expectation value of current
can be treated classically. Densities. Neutron scattering (bragg
factors)

Types of systems: 2DEG, cold atoms, ordinary 3d hunks, supercodnucting
films, liquid helium, NMR, nuclear beams, Accelerators.

What problems can be solved? Linear pdes. ODEs. SHO , particle in a box,
free electron gas, BCS, Single particle scattering, spin problems,
brillouin zone, electrostatics, radiation

Okay. The most important of these is the free electron gas. To know the
free electron inside out is to know a lot.

Eigenstates of free electrons are slater determinants.

I do not know

Okay. UTTER FREEDOM

Shot noise is a poisson process.

In a small time t

$rdt$ probability of something occuring $1-rdt$ on not occuring.

The porbability for the time of an event is propto $rdte^{-rt}$. rdt and
$e^{-rt}$ as a population factor (the prbability that no event has
happendedu p until now.)

The integral of $re^{-rt}$ is normalized.

$\bar{t}=\int tre^{-rt}dt=\frac{1}{r}$

$\bar{t^{2}}=\int t^{2}re^{-rt}dt=\frac{2}{r^{2}}$

For the total rate of parrallel events, the rates add. The popluation
decreases as $e^{-(r_{1}+r_{2})t}$

Subsequent indpendant events the times add. Events in series the times
add. $\bar{t}=\int tre^{-rt}dt=\frac{1}{r}$. The times are the
reciprocols of the rates.

For subsequent events the individual variations also add.

The summed variation

How to see? $e^{\Gamma_{1}t}$
