Berry Phase

Andreeev Reflection and time dependant dressing

The london equations very simply suggest that a net charge would
oscillate.

However, if we're talking quasiparticles, then net charge is shielded.
There would only be baby oscillations produced by the hard core.

But perhaps self consistenly, one might consider a normal hole in the
superocondctor surrounding the electron. As in we maintain the hard
core, but leave the long range interaction to the superocnudcting order
parameter. a la bohm and pines.

Andreev reflection is another manifestation perhaps of this. The current
flows in and out of normal region. Andreev bound states in a psherical
normal particle. I don't know much, but it seems like the size of the
particle should quantize the energy levels. Some self consistency should
be involved. (Andreev bound state energy gap = supercoducting energy
gap?)

What about a moving normal island?

Ok.

Cut the bull

Majorana Fermions and SUpercodnctivty

The London equations are reasonable descrpition

$V=IR$

What is conductivty. Well it is $j=\sigma E$. That is ohm's law in it's
continuum form. There is always some voltage and current where linearity
does not hold, or rather some electric field strength. 100kV is enough
to blow some things up. But ordinary voltages (1V, we get that from
chemical processes like batteries) across a macroscopic hunk is a small
wuantity in the linear regime for a lot of stuff.

$j=\sigma E$ is a law of physics that is archimedean. Force = velocity,
like pulling a sled through treacle. As soon as force stops, the
velcotiy stops. This is not what newton promised. Oscillation is not
really possible. Inertia has no effect.

BUT, superocnudctivty we're in a place where inertia does have an
effect. The treacle is so runny that the sled can keep moving.

So we might expect the nature of the equation to change to a force =
acceleration

$\dot{j}=E$

Pretty good.

Effective spin

Add in spin to cyclrotron motion, this is R=x+p + sigma\
R=x+p + sigma\*x

If term propto sigma becomes large enough, may make x and y commute
again.

LL 1 and 2 as a symmettry. There is an exact mapping between LLL 1 and
two. As far as slow potentails are concerend, they are identical. They
are 1 cycltron energy apart

Effective third direction to play topological insulator game? Like
holographic man. Sketchy. Could use renormalziation scale. Distance
apart r? r1 and r2 to go to 4d qhe. SIngle particle operators go to 2
particle operators. or split r into r1+r2. Then somehow that porjects
down onto tpological insulator. time

PH symmettry within landau level, then LL symmettry between levels. This
gets us close to a QSH effect game in some sense.

Far away B domination

1/2 filling pins theparticles to be close

coulomb pins them to be far

kinetic energy leftover in LL splitting. Balance this with other
potneital constraint
