Quasiparticle vs. collective excitation.

Only particle hole pairs can be produced in a real system. (particle
number is consevred). Ie we can only twiddle the wavefunctions the
electronswe got

c ,$c\dagger$, $c\dagger c$ The conecptually correct way to go about
this ius to conider a wavefunction of N electrons. Then make a inner box
subspace. This box subspace is then a multiparticle state.

The entire outside box can be treated as a chemical potential state.

A particler hole pair can

In the limit of many electrons, the ground states for different N (at
constant density or chemical potential or something. Probably chemical
potetial) must be quite similar (in that when you take a small box the
inner box wavefunction matches, or rather perhaps the excitations in the
small box match).

Very much realted to T matrix apporimxarion, where we can

Direct Polarization Quantization as Bosonization
------------------------------------------------

Polarization i

The Lock-In
-----------

The lockin is a Nearly-time invariant system. The same way the Bloch
system is nearly trasnlationally invariant.

$(\partial_{t}^{2}-\omega_{0}^{2}+\sin(\omega t))u=\sin(\omega t)$ Is
the lockin equation.

If we solve this Perturbatively, it is realted to the weak binding model
(with omega suqared playing E, and partial t take the place of x in a
1-d statiionary equation for a crystal potential sin).

u=$\sin(\omega t)+\int G\sin(\omega t')dt'$

u = sin\*G\*sin, is the response to in put forcing sin into a system of
response G then multiplying by another sin in the lockin (Then perhaps a
final integration stage I)

Better might be to consider the T matrix

It uses a broken symmettry/broken degereacy. Is this typical behavior to
achieve high resolution? Null measurement is another kind of broken
symmettry (between plus and minus, which can be easily detected).

The lockin technique could be used to exhibit topological and barry
phase? Robust measurement techinque.

What is Green;s function of Bloch system, damped block system?

The periodic network is the equivlaent of a bloch system. The limit of
small elements is the continuum limit and focusing on the lowest band
which linearzes.

The left and right freqeuncy plane are coupled.

The standard plane wave expansions expands around a recpricol lattice
around a central guy, because the periodic potential couples guys the
lattice vector apart.

The phase locked loop however is a nonlinear guy. So we don't want
recipricol lattice. We want its own self imposed recipricol lattice. The
opposite wavevectors will be strongly coupled because they probably have
the same energy (various kinds of symmettries will gurantee this,
however lifting symmettries).

Extension of descrbiing function method: Put in fourier series, get out
fourier series.

The analystic signal and complex response functions. One way to deal
with non time invariance or nearly time invariance may be to go to the
analytic signal and then allow

Phase locking -\> Where before there may have been degrenacy between
cosine and sine, now there us not, so the oscillator either locks in
phase or out of phase with the potential.

Phase locked loop equation

$\partial_{t}^{2}-\omega_{0}^{2}+u^{2}=0$

$\partial_{t}^{2}-\omega_{0}^{2}+u\int u(t)\sin(\omega_{0}t)=0$

$\partial_{t}^{2}-\omega_{0}^{2}+u\int u(t')u(t'-T)dt'=0$

Trying to get a slight modulation of the effective freqeuncy constant
depending on how good the osacillator is doing. PLL

Parametric oscillator/ amplifier

The tempurtaure dependant resistance in the wien bridge

Phase Noise

Fluctuation disspiation for parametric terms. No longer time invariant.

Vernier calipers are

Bits
----

Conisrutive realtions, conservations equations, conistency conditions.

Impedance is what connects us all.

Positive and negative frequency are not independant. For complex signal,
they by themselves may be random, but there may be phase locking
(correlation between positive and negative freqeuncy).
