Scattering using coherent states, adibatically go to p basis.

Topologically robust properties in stat mech. Examples in statistical
fields, but what about single particle.

T matrix - extensuion of born approximation

Combined T comes from T1+ T2

Two sperable potentials. What is combined hamiltonian (low freqeuncy?)

Boundary matrix elements. The k are stand ins for exit and entrance
directions

Source and decay terms in open classical density are not symmettric

What set of sources would combine to give a pure plane wave in the +k
direction (-k?). That is the right dudes to use in the time loop
scttaering matrix.

Consistency conditions are similar to conservation conditions. Gives
relations required on phenomlogical theories.

Classical Botlzman resistor treated using reservoir approach

$D=\lambda^{2}/\tau$

$v=\lambda/\tau$

$<L^{2}>=\lambda^{2}\frac{t}{\tau}=v\lambda t=Dt$

$v\lambda=D$

Ballistic $L=vt$

Fluctuations $m<v^{2}>=kT$

Kubo

$\partial_{t}\rho=\{H,\rho\}$

$\partial_{t}\rho=\{V,\rho\}$

Classical polarization thoery. Hot box of gas. How does mean position
change with introduction of linear potential. That is a polarized box.

Classical correaltions. (not necessarily equal time)

$<AB>-<A><B>$

or to isolate time dependant correlations

$<A(t)B(0)>-<A(0)B(0)>=<A(t)B(0)>-<A(0)B(0)>-<A(t)><B(0)>+<A(0)><B(0)>$
presumably if stationary.

We can define time ordering in classical mechanics too. It is useful for
same dyson reasons that integrals with crappy bounds becomes nice.

The reason time ordering is important for pertubration thoery is if we
consider two seperator perturbations. If we do not define time ordering,
we must include all possible orderings for the q A perturbation and p B
perturbations. That stinks. This is only particularly useful in the
forueir domain, where time ordered responses may be gained with simple
rules and contours. In time domain, you have to do by hamnd anyhnow.
Perturbation

Robust Topological sepeartion of subspaces. The hmailtinian blocks
between suabcpes must be robiustly zero or very near zero. Symmettries
as clamps

pseudospectrum as a tool to investigate robustness to perturbation.

The Topolgicoal porjection operators. remain orthogonal under
perturbation? Adiabatic transport?

$tr(P_{a}P_{b})\le1$

$P_{a}=|a><a|$

Commutator is due to time evolution of bra and ket. (plus i factor that
comes from expanding U)

The jordan wigner is a matrix manifesation of the belt trick.

Chern simons as a jordan wigner? Boundary of chern simons compresses to
jodran wigner?

current potential, with 0 = t. Bosonization did this in 1+1. Chern
simons in 2+1. $\nabla\times a=j$. automatically $\nabla\cdot j=0$

Cince we're talking about flux binding. I want $B_{z}=\rho$

$a=(B_{z},E_{x},E_{y})$

$a=(B_{z},A_{x},A_{y})$

$\nabla\times A=B=\nu\rho$

Rleaxation time apprximation must be some of that newfangled non
determinsitic denstiy matrix evoltuion at its core.

Using T matrix instead of bare potential in Hartree fock does a better
job. T is effective potential

Botlzmann factor esque wavefunctiond (correlated basis) are interesting
ansatz wavefunctions that can be approached and understood using
classical thoery.

Luaghlin state is in this class as it is a plasma boltzmann factor

We can perform partition function games on wavefunctions.

I could coarsen the wavefunction.

Renormalize $\psi(nuclei,electrons)$. Get Born Oppenheimer renorm style.

What about fermi dirac or Bose einstein ansatz wavefunctions? (Truly
bizarto second quantization)

Sudden approximation. = Free particle scattering

Is antisymmetry what I want for coherent states description of fermions
in a SHO?

Femermionic exterior harmonic osciilator

Branch cuts = jordan wigner string

$\sum\sqrt{z-z_{i}}$ is a function that would have branch cuts
connecting all the zi points. Under change of zi, branch cuts run into
each other

Gauge Thoery - connection to topology = hgeometry minus wiggles, wiggles
being gauge transfromations

The magnetic scalar potential has a cut surface (across which it is
discontinous, hence derivative is not finite, which is bull). surface
can be wiggled, such wiggling is a gauge transfromation of the potential
(adding ? Maybe this is not strictly a gauge transfromation, moving the
boundary cut). discontinuity across surface is the flux = current in
wire.

Better is vector potential, which does have gauge transfromations. Since
they describe the same field B, I expect the vector potential to have
the topology of the cut surface implicit in it somewhere (the line
integral that punctures the surface).

Strings in 3d could be dirac strings, necessary cuts in the vector
potential, where it is undefined. dual to this is the scalar potential,
which tells you how many strings cut as closed surface. magnetic
monopole using scalar field versus vector potential.

The old timey sommerfled perspective was delta functions are shit.
Singular sources are actually cut out of the domain. point sources are
point functions. Line sources are edge functions. In some way, green's
functions and potentials can be used to describe domains with low
dimensional bits chopped out.

potential is a point function, vector potential is an edge function.
laplacians on each equal the signular points of the domain, the excised
bits. For an edge source do i use the points contained in the edge for
the . I need to have anb amperian dipole layer. and I need the dirac
string.

$\nabla\phi=\nabla\times A$ except on one surface.

Does JW string with on points or edges?

The jw string could be the literal belt from the belt trick. a belt
locally is a porjective object, the same up or down, but global twisting
hangs it up. This means it is liekly to be locally described
spinorially/porjectively. but it has a local gauge transformation that
it can undergo local rotations and trasnlations.

Could I describe the belt as a kind of string cut of a field? What is
it's gauge field description? what is the flux integral (maybe the twist
number (mobius band style, linking number of edges))?

Wave pinhole camera. Can I use projective transfromations to transfrom
the solution of wave going straight down through a pinhole to oblique
incidence? Oblique sees oblong pinhole. Need ratio of pinhole parameter
and wavelength,

Up, down, left, and right movers, or polygonal dispersion relations.
Constant density of states approximation + transition to next edge when
you hit a corner. Radial wavevector makes energy, tangetial just build
up until you transition to next surface.

$\psi_{cornerB}^{\dagger}\psi_{cornerA}$

Or smallest, triangular fermi surface.

Chebyshev

Piecewise linear dispersion surface.

Nonequilirium stat mech. periodic input = periodic output. if stable.
Assume stability rather than equiblirum. Periodic Functionals.

Fokker planck equation and QFT. Smoulokowski. Okay, so\... Fokker planck
sources terms, perodiodic fokker planck. Long time. Periodic Potential
Term. Can then sepearate into forier modes if we assume stability.

Classicla Bloch equation.

Time ordered Green

$\sum e^{-i\omega|t|}|n><n|$

$\sum_{n>n_{F}}e^{-i\omega t}|n><n|\theta(t)+\sum_{n<n_{F}}e^{i\omega t}|n><n|\theta(-t)$

$\sum e^{-i|\omega t|}|n><n|$

retarded

$\sum e^{-i\omega t}|n><n|$

$\sum e^{-i\omega t}|n><n|\theta(t)$

advanced

$\sum e^{i\omega t}|n><n|$

time derivative Matrix

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
1\\
-1 & 1\\
 & -1 & 1\\
 &  & -1 & 1\\
 &  &  & -1 & 1
\end{array}\right]$

Always be aware of the total space we're working in. Adjoint time,
adjoint space, or adjoint both.

$$\theta(t)=\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
1\\
1 & 1\\
1 & 1 & 1\\
1 & 1 & 1 & 1\\
1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\theta(t)^{\dagger}=\theta(-t)=\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1\\
 & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1\\
 &  & 1 & 1 & 1\\
 &  &  & 1 & 1\\
 &  &  &  & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
i\\
-i & i\\
 & -i & i\\
 &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i
\end{array}\right]$

Adjoint of forward is backwards

Adjoint of forwardbackward is backward forward.

Time ordered and anti timeordered?

$\sum e^{-i\omega|t|}|n><n|$

$\sum e^{i\omega|t|}|n><n|$

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
i & -i\\
 & i & -i\\
 &  & i\\
 &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i
\end{array}\right]$

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
-i\\
i & -1\\
 & i & -i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  &  & -i
\end{array}\right]$

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
i & -i\\
 & i & -i\\
 &  & 2i\\
 &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i
\end{array}\right]$

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
-i\\
i & -1\\
 & i & -2i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  &  & -i
\end{array}\right]$

It does seem weirdly periodic in a way. If I slide that one up to the
top, then eventually I get to the backward forward

Propgation in from the ends plus a matching condition in the middle is
the adjoint of porgating forward and backward from middle.

$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
i & -i\\
 & i & -i\\
 &  & 2i\\
 &  & -i & i\\
 &  &  & -i & i
\end{array}\right]$

Current current correlator - gives current response kubo style

density density correlator - Directly gives polarization,

Equations of motion - Green's function (c-number equation. CGBKY
hoerarchy esque), Operator equations (Nonilinear Matrix equations),
Wavfunction evolution equatiosn.
