Projective Geometry
===================

We have an intuitive idea of what consitutes space. Space is something
you can move around in. Its a place where you can put things. Geometry
is the study of space.

The ordinary geometry that we think of from High School, with triangles
and angles and distance and all that, is called Euclidean geometry. You
can think of it as the geometry of muscle, of feeling, of location.
Perhaps one might consider it to be physical geometry as well, as the
way things really are. I believe this is a debatable point.

Projective Geometry is the geometry of the eye. If you think about it,
the size of things is irrelevant to how large they appear and the angles
that things actually meet at does not determine the angle they meet at
according to your eye. You can demonstrate this with even your triangle
on a paice of paper. Sure, viewed top down it looks about correct, but
when you view the page almost edge on, the object is drastically
distorted. There

Some of the trouble understanding projective geometry is that you know
too much. When you see a lamp, you know how big the lamp is. When you
see a desk you know its edges meet at right angles. This is partially
what makes drawing accurate pictures of scenes so difficult. You put
down on the page what you know is there rsather than what you truly see
it there.

That the geometry you see is not the geometry you feel is also the
origin of a number of optical illusions.

Projective geometry is just as a legitimate as Euclidean geometry,
perhaps more so, as it turns out there is a neat hierarchy of Geometry.
If you approach geometry axiomatically, Euclidean Geometry is merely
Projective Geometry strengthened with a few extra axioms or by
specifying a few special lines and conics.

Pinhole Camera
--------------

The simplest picture to understand porjective geometry is that of the
pinhole camera. Imagine holding a card in front of your face with a tiny
hole in it. You can move your head side to side. The only thing you'll
see are things that are on the line connecting your eye to the hole,
everything else will be obscured. If it is really bright out, you can
place a screen behind the hole. and a scalded image with be porjected
into the screen, the image of the sun eppearing at the place on the
screen that is hit by the line connecting the sun to the pinhole. Now,
it is natrual to use (x,y,z) coordinates to describe the scene outside.
Let's place the camera at $(0,0,0)$. and place our screen on the line
$z=-1$. Then by looking at similar triangles made by the light ray
between hole and screen and the object and hole, we can see that an
object at $(x,y,z)$ will have an image on the screen at
$(-\frac{x}{z},-\frac{y}{z},-1)$

Fractions
---------

We all know what fractions are. They specify how much of a pie is left.
There are sticky parts of the theory of fractions that typically arise
from their ability to go inifnitely small and fine. In order to wrestle
with these beasts, one has to be very careful. When one approaches
fractions axiomatically, they are defined as equivalence classes of
pairs of integers. An equivalence relation is a grouping that satisfies
most of our intuitive ideas of equivlance

1.  If $a=b$, then $b=a$

2.  $a=a$

3.  If $a=b$ and $b=c$, then $a=c$

So for example, $(2,4)\in"\frac{1}{2}"$, and $(3,6)\in"\frac{1}{2}"$.
The pairing $(a,b)$ is defined to be in the same equivlalence class as
$(c,d)$ if $ad=bc$ (We would naturally reaarange this condiont to
$\frac{a}{b}=\frac{c}{d}$, but then we're using fractions in our
defintion of fractions, which is naughty. We want to found our fractions
in the bedrock of only the integers, which we may freely multiply, but
often not divide). So that means that if we multiply both terms by the
same factor, $(\lambda a,\lambda b)$, we do not change equivalance
class, because $\lambda$ "divides out".

One way of looking a projective geometry is to define it in terms of its
coordinates, which are known as homogenous coordinates. It is like using
fractions of real numbers instead of integers. We define a point on the
real projective line $RP^{1}$as the pair $(a,b)$ where $a,b\in R^{1}$.
Two pairs are equivalent if they differ by an overall factor $\lambda$.
Oftentimes we might think of the point $(a,b)$ as a point on the real
line $\frac{a}{b}$, but this correspondence cannot often be trusted, as
the correspondnce is. It is somewhat equivlaent to the porlbem in
Euclidean geometry of thinking about the point $(0,0,1)$ as the point on
the z-axis, when really, the point in the point, and the cooridnates
have an hidden dependance on how you define your axes. In Euclidean
geometry, we think rotationally and translationally invariant properties
of our setup as being truly important, and explicit coordinate
expressions might contain unimportant or deceptive details.

We can instead use the language of linear algebra to describe the same
thing. In linear algebra, n-tuples of numbers are called vectors. In
that case, a point in $RP^{1}$is given by a one dimensional subspace in
$R^{2}$, in other words a ray. A line in $RP^{n}$is given by a 2-d
subspace of $R^{n+1},$ a plane by a 3-d subspace, etc. The direction of
the vector matters, but its overall magnitude is irrelevant.

### Continued Fractions

For funzies, let's use our projective geometry ideas in an interesting
application, the study of some infinite contidued fractions.

The Babylon Method of Square Roots

$$x_{n+1}=\frac{1}{2}(x_{n}+\frac{b}{x_{n}})$$

We take our current best guess $x_{n}$ and calulcate $\frac{b}{x_{n}}$.
If our guess is really good, $\frac{b}{x_{n}}$ will be really close to
$x_{n}$, since ideally $x_{n}^{2}=b$. If $x_{n}$if too high, then
$\frac{b}{x_{n}}<\sqrt{b}$, because we divide by too big a number, if
our guess is too low then $\frac{b}{x_{n}}>\sqrt{b}$. So regardless of
where our guess lies, above or below the right answer, it feels like the
average of $\frac{b}{x_{n}}$ and $x_{n}$will be a better guess than
$x_{n}$was, since it will combine a too high and a too low number.\\

Augmented Vectors
-----------------

A third persepctive on homogenous coordinates is the idea of an
augmented vector. Let us agree to take any ordinary point vector and
just pack in an extra 1, for fun.

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
z
\end{array}\right]\Rightarrow\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
z\\
1
\end{array}\right]$$

Any of our old familar operations, such as a rotation, or a relfection
about the origin, or skew transfromation, can similarly be extended

$$A\Rightarrow\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & \begin{array}{c}
0\\
0\\
0
\end{array}\\
\begin{array}{ccc}
0 & 0 & 0\end{array} & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

Basically the 1 just comes along for a ride.

The benefit of this is now we can include translations as matrix
operations.

$$T=\left[\begin{array}{cccc}
1 & 0 & 0 & t_{x}\\
0 & 1 & 0 & t_{y}\\
0 & 0 & 1 & t_{z}\\
0 & 0 & 0 & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

$$T\underbar{x}=\left[\begin{array}{c}
x+t_{x}\\
y+t_{y}\\
z+t_{z}\\
1
\end{array}\right]$$

If we need to chain together a long sequence of rotations and
translation for exmaple, this seems like an elegant way to go about it.

We could extend our notion of the augmented vector slightly to the
homogneous vector. Instead of always having a 1 in the last row, we
allow it to be anything, but it really represents the same point

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
z\\
w
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\frac{x}{w}\\
\frac{y}{w}\\
\frac{z}{w}\\
1
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
x'\\
y'\\
z'\\
1
\end{array}\right]$$

Now our matrices are the same as before, exxcept the overall factor no
longer matters.

What about that last row of the matrix? It seems rather wasteful.

Duality
-------

Duality in linear algebra is the idea that linear scalar valued
functions on vector spaces are also vector vector spaces. In matrix
terminology, this means that a matrix with a signle row is a vector in
its own vector space (you can't add row vectors to columns vectors in
any sensible way, but you can add row vectors to row vectors).

Duality refers to various ways of identifying particular row vectors
with particular column vectors. The simplest duality is just hitting the
column vector with a transpose, an operation so trivial it barely feels
like one at all. The strange and wondrous thing is that while row
vectors look tirvially dsimilar on the page to columnv vectors, they
often have entirely different intepreations and this may buy you two
theorems for the price of one. In homogenous cooridnates, row vectors
represent hyperplanes, while column vectors represent points. Using the
transpose operator, we define a unique 1-1 correspondence between
hyperplanes and points.

### Hodge Duality

### Pole-Polar Duality

Estimating a Cow
----------------

Cross Ratio

Matrix Coordinates
------------------

Instead of packing our coordinates into vectors, we can pack them into
matrices. Matrices are not really that much different from vectors. You
can add them, multiply them, etc. In fact there is a conventional
correpsondence between matrices and vectors that can come quite in
handy, know as the vec operator. This operation is extremely common in
the Engineering and Statistics community, but less so in Physics.
Physicists also deal with rectangular matrices or non-hermitian much
less. What it does is it unfolds the matrix column by column into a
vector, which is most easily seen by inspecting the following example

$$\text{vec}\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
a & d & g\\
b & e & h\\
c & f & i
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
a\\
b\\
c\\
d\\
e\\
f\\
g\\
h\\
i
\end{array}\right]$$

The convention for the Kronecker product is given by the block matrix

$$C\otimes B=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
c_{11}B & c_{12}B\\
c_{21}B & c_{22}B
\end{array}\right]$$

Matrix multiplication on a matrix corresponds to matrix multplication on
its vectorized form.

$$\text{vec }BAC^{T}=C\otimes B\text{vec}A$$

Packing our coordinates into a matrix actually is more resitrtive than
packing the same elemetns in a vector, since the operators we use are
only those that are Kronecker factorizable.

$$x\sigma_{x}+y\sigma_{y}+z\sigma_{z}=\vec{\sigma}\cdot\vec{x}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
z & x-iy\\
x+iy & -z
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\text{vec}\vec{\sigma}\cdot\vec{x}=\left[\begin{array}{c}
z\\
x+iy\\
x-iy\\
-z
\end{array}\right]$$

We can see that this is just a linear rearrangent of our oridnary
conception of a vector. We could think of this as a vector in a bizarro
basis.

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
z\\
x+iy\\
x-iy\\
-z
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
0 & 0 & 1\\
1 & i & 0\\
1 & -i & 0\\
0 & 0 & -1
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
z
\end{array}\right]$$

The matrix acting on this vector for rotation about the z axis would be
clearly be

$$\left[\begin{array}{cccc}
1 & 0 & 0 & 0\\
0 & e^{i\phi} & 0 & 0\\
0 & 0 & e^{-i\phi} & 0\\
0 & 0 & 0 & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

But this curiously factorizes as

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
e^{\frac{i\phi}{2}} & 0\\
0 & e^{\frac{-i\phi}{2}}
\end{array}\right]\otimes\left[\begin{array}{cc}
e^{\frac{-i\phi}{2}} & 0\\
0 & e^{\frac{i\phi}{2}}
\end{array}\right]$$

$$

By our vec correspondence, we can use this as a sandwhich of matrices on
our coordinate matrix.

Spinor Coordinates
------------------

### Stereographic Projection

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
\cos(\frac{\theta}{2})e^{i\frac{\phi}{2}}\\
\sin(\frac{\theta}{2})e^{-i\frac{\phi}{2}}
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=0^{\circ}$

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=180^{\circ}$

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
0\\
1
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=90^{\circ}$, $\phi=0^{\circ}$

$$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
1
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=90^{\circ}$, $\phi=90^{\circ}$ SOmethings off

$$\frac{1+i}{2}\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
-i
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=90^{\circ}$, $\phi=180^{\circ}$

$$\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
-1
\end{array}\right]$$

$\theta=90^{\circ}$, $\phi=270^{\circ}$

$$\frac{1+i}{2}\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
i
\end{array}\right]$$
