### The Line at Infinity

One of the most beautiful and important differences between ordinary
real space and projective space is the existance of a hyperplane at
inifnity. In 2-d this is a line at inifnity, in 3-d this is a plane at
inifity. Let's look at the typical correspondence between the real line
$R^{1}$ and the porjective real line $RP^{1}$

$$x'=\frac{x}{w}\Longleftrightarrow\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
w
\end{array}\right]$$

Now if we want $x'\rightarrow\infty$ we can very easily achieve this
without difficulty by letting $w\rightarrow0^{+}$. But the limitting
projective point

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
a\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

Does not appear intrisinsically nasty at all. It basically seems not all
that different from any other point. We can think of this projective
point as corresponding to $x'=\infty$ in some sense, although the
typcial correspondence requires us to use an ill defined divide by zero.
But what if we wanted $x'\rightarrow-\infty$? Then we would let
$w\rightarrow0^{-}$. Interestingly again the pont

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
a\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

shows up. So it seems that somehow, we have added a point at inifty, but
we've added the same point and negative ininty. This is an idea that
finds uses in many places. It feels like the graph of $\frac{1}{x}$. It
shoots up to inifnty on one side of zero and then comes up from negative
inifnty on the other side. If we want to enforce this as a coniitnuos
function without breaks, we have to say that the two inifities are
actually one. The real projectively line is topologically equvlaent to a
circle. This is an important fact since it means we can produce a nice
continuous mapping between the circle and the porjective line.

In 2-d, we have a whole line of points at inifnity.

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

Each point in a sense represents an unoriented direction since
projective points do not care about overall constants

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
y\\
0
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
-x\\
-y\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

### Conics

### Homographies

Euclidean transfromations preserve distances and angles. They consist of
rotations and translations. In some contexts they also include scaling
transforomations which just blow up or shrink everything by the same
factor.

When we take a photograph from different angles though, the distances
and angles are most defnitely not preserved. Closeup things appear
larger, and angles viewed may appear sharper.

The transofrmation that will take different persepctives into each other
are called homographies.

Homographies are the most general transfromations that maintains
collinearity of points. If three points lie on a line before the
homography, they will still lie on some other line after the homography.
Thus homographies not only can be seen as 1-1 point trnasfomrtaiotn, but
also could be called 1-1 line tranafromations, which is fitting with the
idea of projective duality.

Homographies may be very simply described in practice as linear
transformations (matrices) that act on the porjective vectors that
represent points. This actually includes all homographies.

$$x'=Hx$$

Homographies are completely determined oncey ou know their action on ?
points.

Inversions

Dualistic transfromations

Dualistic transfomrations add in a trnspose to the mix.

### Conics

Conics are described by matrices. Algebriacllay a conic in euclidean
space is given by the points that satisfy a qudratic equation

$$x^{T}Ax+2b^{T}x+c=0$$

But if we use augmented vectors, we can write this whole thing as a big
matrix equaltion

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
x^{T} & 1\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & b\\
b^{T} & c
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
x\\
1
\end{array}\right]=0$$

But we know that augmented vectors are just a short conecptual skip and
jump away from projective geometry. So in porjective geometry the points
on a conic satisfy

$$p^{T}Cp=0$$

Because the points at infnity are the same as other points from the
projective persective, types of conics that seem radically different can
be transfromaed into each other, for example hyperbola and circles.

Note that our defintion of the conic is homogenous. If we multiply the
point vector by an arbitrary consatnt, the above equation will remain
true. It is vital that any constrcution in porjective vectors remains
true under scaling the vector by a scalar for consistancy. If a
constucting doesn't do this, you're not doing projective geometry,
you're either wrong, or using some hybrid beast, in which case you must
remain more vigilant than relying on formalism.

### Envelopes

Curves can be described into two dual ways. They can be a collection of
points, which is very familiar. Very importantly they can also be
descirbed as the enevlope of a family of lines. A family of lines is a
set of lines with an ordering. In order to construct the envelope, what
you do is connect the dots. Draw the first line in the family, then draw
the second. Their intersection point is the start of your enevlope
curve. Draw the third line and connect the intersection of the 1st and
2nd to the interestion of the 2nd and 3rd. Keep going, connecting
interesction point 23 to 34 tto 45 to 56, etc. The resulting curve is
called the enevlope of that family of lines.

Mathemtically you find the intersection points using the cross product

$$p_{12}=l_{1}\times l_{2}$$

Then you connect all these points in order to get the envelope curve.

You can take the enevlope not only of a family of lines, but a family of
arbitray curves. The process is the same. Find the interesction of
neighboring curves in the family and connect the dots. The algebra of
this enveloping might be more difficult, but the drawing process is very
similar.

A conic has been described as a set of points, but we can also describe
it and the envelope of all its tangent lines. Given two points on the
conic, the secant line connecting them is

$$l^{T}=(p_{a}\times p_{b})^{T}$$

### Pole Polar

Given the ball of ice cream that is a conic and a point, you can find
the cone that has its tip at the point and that the ice cream sits
comforatbly on. At the point of cotact between the ice cream and the
cone, the cone is tangent to the surface of the ice cream. The
interesection of the ice cream conic and the cone will lie in a plane.
This plane is called the polar plane of the tiup of the cone, which is
called the pole. In this way, the conic creates a 1-1 correspondnec
between points and planes. Algebriacally, how this is done is
surprisingly simple. The polar is found by applying the conic matrix to
the point and then taking the transpose.

$$l^{T}=(Cp)^{T}$$

If the point lies on the ocnic itself then

$$p^{T}Cp=0$$

But then the polar to this point ought to also touch the conic and touch
the point itself. This is consistant with our feintion

$$$$

The ordinary dual where we just take the tranpose could be considered
the pole polar relationship using the conic described by the identity
matrix.

Straihgt-Line constructions

### The Case For Projective Geometry

The ideas of porjective geometry, and expecially homgenous coordinates
reduce a number problems in geometry to linear algebra, which we know
like that back of papa's hand.

1.  Changes of Camera Perspective become Matrix tranafromations

2.  Finding where geometric objects intersect is a linear system of
    equations

3.  The point at Inifnity

4.  Optical Systems like lenses act in ways that are most intrinsically

Porjective Geometry can be embedded in euclidean geometry (like the
camera model) and euclidean geometry can be embedded in projective
geometry (by desginating special lines and conics as special from all
the rest), so the two are equivalent in what they can describe, but the
language differences between the two can make different ideas obvious if
you use the right one or totally incomprehensible if you use the wrong
one.

### Algerbaicization of Geometry
