\_\| as the chern simons term operator. If you take a product of all of
them you get a full tiling of the plane. They have a funky chircal
character to them. Kind of makes sense as the limit of
$e^{i\epsilon a\partial a}$. Kind of self dual. \_\| -\> \|- .

\|\_ + no flux constraint coming from 0 compoenent.

K matrix is integer matrix. Manipulations into new bases correspond to
new basis of collection of quasiparticles or antiparticle. Smith normal
form.

Coherent farday pail. That's be fun. A faraday pail is how you measure
charge. How it works is the gas of electrons in the metal of the pail
shield the interior chargeIn. They travel thorug the wire coennect to
the electrometer. COnsider Non-abliean field. We could use a shell
filled with a free gas of nonableian aware particles (Noninteracting
test particles hopefully? To have to inlcude the interaction would
stink, although perhaps we could use a superofluid condensate and just
have to live with a nonlinear fairly classical wavefunction). Upon the
introudction of a test charge into the pale, the ground state will
change and particles will flow into thorugh the wire to maintain
chemical potential.

Large shells ought to be degernate in energy with respect to angukar
momentum? No\.... Well yes. Spherical symmettry makes directionality
degenerate and Large R is same as large box L leading to spacing between
different total angular momentum energy decreasing into a ocntinuum. A
large sphere becomes essentially the plane.

If we had the test particles be magnetic monopoles, we could define
Chern number as the interior charge

ALternative is to make gaussian surface of coherent springs that are
field aware. More of a dielectric model. The equilbirum strethcing of
the strpings tells us how much charge is inside or at least how to
compare different charges that have been placed iniside.
