Method of Dominant Balance

Equation is seperated into dominant and submissive halves in a sum like
manner because asymptitcs. Pairing isn't neccessary. All binomial
combinations of terms might be dominant together. Including a submissive
in the dominant part doesn't hurt anything.

Effective Boundary Conditions

Boundary Layers

The WKB turning point as a boundary layer. $\hbar\nabla^{2}S$ dominates,
like viscosity does at boundary. $\mu\sim\hbar$, kind of. de broglie
wavelength $p=\frac{\hbar}{\lambda}$ is analogous to Reynolds Number
$\rho v=\frac{\mu}{a}$. Hrrrm. This is total crackpottery. But
interesting. This is totally wrong. $\nabla^{2}S=0$ is supposed to be
the velicty potential conditon.

Quantum-esque fluid dynamics. The burgers equation. Quantum mechanics
linearizes chaos, maybe it also linearizes turbulence. Hamilton Jacobi
equation is basically bernoulli equation.

How can you get quantum to have vorticity equivalent. Vorticity is like
vector potential, or B. Particle in mangetic field? Quantum schrod + EM
dynamics = fluid dyanmics?

$$\nabla\vec{A}e^{iS}$$

Does this suggest that perhaps a particle scttaering of a cylinder with
B field should become turbulent in a sense? turblunece = interference?

Born and WOlf did mention skew fields occurring in electron optics.
Could be referring to magentic field stuff.

I suppose that the State action (one set of variables) describes
noninteracting fluid dynamics (pressure free) aka dilute gas dynamics,
which is almost the opposite of incompressible fluid dynamics. Vorticity
would indeed be possible in the presence of a magnetic field for the
noninteracting gas. The Hamilton function corresponds to a lagrangian
persective of the fluid dynamics.

The ibncmpressibility suggests that many body fermi systems might be the
right linear analog, which would suck, because those are hard.

Perhaps noninteracting rigid body gas could be used to include
voriticty. The rotation of the bodies in the gas gives vorcitiy.

Applications of inviscid flow to superconductivity. The paradox of no
drag would seem non paradoxical if used in this context. Drag =
resistance. Electron gas in metal is incompressible fluid. Bernoulli law
in electron gas? nonconducting Wing shapes producing lift in electric
current? If wing needs magentic flux thorugh it, then sort of hall
effect/bohm aharomov. Crystal fluid flow? Any special theorems?

What is wkb in magnetic field?

$$e^{iS+\int A\cdot\nabla S}$$

Applications to scattering. Is the velcoty potential exactly what you
should put in the exponential? eikonal approximation. For constant
amplitude field solutions only. (COnstant amplitude corresponds to
incompressible)

$$e^{i\frac{m}{\hbar}\phi}$$

Scattering of electrons off a tilted plate ought to produce lift.

Vortex dynamics - two vortices rotate abut a center of vorticity. Cooper
pairs? I'm being real silly here.

Vortex = electron spin magnetic field. back to the idea of rigid bodies
carrying angular momentum. Vortex rings instead offilaments (tiny
current loop/dipole)

Neutral spin liquid is model of rotational inviscid flow?

Or in superfluids, I've heard that vortices in the fluid are important.

Wavefronts are volumes carried with flow.
