Infromation transport. Fisher matrix field. Inverse of correlation
function and transport of correlation. two position function,
information about position x given information at y. Expected diffusion
term or dpsperion making distance difficult to resolve. Also mixing will
confuse things. Although fundamentally?

Intesnity measurment and sources use 4 point function with macthed
location. Information as function of controllable sources j. Or sources
could be some sort of given the filed value here thing.

Lagrange Interpolation
----------------------

Ein is in sampled points, Emax is best polynomial error. Eout is actual
maximum error of fitted poly.

How do you describe the world? The bojective is to describe what's
happening so precisely, that you can type it up and send it over to your
friend and he can do the exact same thing. Numbers man. But we also want
to say as little as possible. You didn't describe the desk you were
writ9ng on. YOu didn't say use a pnecil. We want to boil down to the
essence, and we've found that the simpler the principlkes the more
widlely applicable

What is the state of light? If I put a screen here or here or here. Or a
cemra obscura. What happens? What do i need to know How much is
redundant? Could I maybe just tell you a sliver and you can get all the
rest? What does the light "look" like? a bunch of imaginary rods in
space (rays?)

Newton's 3 laws

1\. Velocity must be measured relative to something

2\. The state of a system is position and velocity. We should consider
two systems that differ only in velocity and position as the same
system.

3\. momentum is conserved
