Compare in sample sensitivty to parameter to out of samppe sensitvity.
If in sample is nsensitive but out of sample is sensitive to paramter,
that is really bad. You won't be able to deduce it well, and the
predictions will depnd highly on it

Direct prediction. Instead of finding parameters, can we write the
predicted value of x as a driect minimum of some function of the
smaples?

$$\partial_{y}\phi(y,x,\{x_{i},y_{i}\})=0$$

for example

$$\sum\frac{(y-y_{i})^{2}}{(x-x_{i})^{2}}$$

Regularization as feedback. Feedback makes the forward gain irrelevant,
no matter how shitty. Sort of our forward gain for sampling is a low
pass filter. Noise injected after low pass (numerical error, aliasing?)
and noise injected before (randomness inherent in system). Ideal
feedback network? Can we use feedback framework to pick regularizer
value? cross validation as feedback. We design based on data set, but
wee need device to be robust, so we put feedback loop in.

Stability in feedback is related to overfitting? Regularizing polynomial
has design parameters.

Weiner Filter?

With lagrange interplation, maybe we can pick a minimum regularizer that
guarantees uniform convergence (as a function of smapling points).
Bernstein is a little harsh (slow convergence). An oscillation
suprressor would probably be useful. If we use least squares, the K
matrix in the lagrange basis.

$$||a-y||^{2}+\gamma a^{T}Ka$$

$$K_{ij}=\int\frac{d}{dx}l_{i}(x)\frac{d}{dx}l_{j}(x)dx$$

$$l_{j}(x)e^{-\gamma(x-x_{j})^{2}}$$

$$l'_{i}(x)=\sum_{j}l_{j}(x)e^{-\gamma(x_{i}-x_{j})^{2}}$$

Weierstrauss factorization theorem? Since lagrange interp is very much
about factors

Do detemrinistic interpolation then validate with random sampling.

Given a correlation matrix (function), I can construct the linear
estimator. Then can apply L to one side to get j. Do i want the inverse
of correlation matrix?

sort of like the Boundary function (the green's function for the
homgenous solution) except overdetermined.

$$\mu_{a|b}=\mu_{a}-\Lambda_{aa}^{-1}\Lambda_{ab}(x_{b}-\mu_{b})$$

What about if we have correlation function at boundary and want
correlation function inside?

For scattering, what FEM basis functions to use for the scatterring?
Outgoing wedge?

Deisgn of experiment in terms of control thoery. Objective is to
maximize observation power. Control is which experiments to run.
Dynamics are typically noexsitent, so is simpler
