### Linear Circuits

The structure of a acircuit can be necoded into an adjacency matrix.

A circuit diagram is a topological diagram. Warping the edges is
irrelevant, What matters is what connects to what.

Each node can have a voltage associated with it. We want to know the
voltage drop across each edge

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
v_{12}\\
v_{13}\\
v_{23}\\
\ldots
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cccc}
-1 & 1 & 0 & \ldots\\
-1 & 0 & 1 & \ldots\\
0 & -1 & 1 & \ldots\\
\ldots & \ldots & \ldots & \ldots
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
v_{1}\\
v_{2}\\
v_{3}\\
\ldots
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\Delta v=Dv$$

The voltage vector is a way of encoding a voltage function, which has
different values from place to place. The indices of the vector encode
this location. To find the actual physical location of each node, we
could encode it in a matrix

$$\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
x_{1} & y_{1} & z_{1}\\
x_{2} & y_{2} & z_{2}\\
x_{3} & y_{3} & z_{3}\\
\ldots & \ldots & \ldots
\end{array}\right]$$

When we take the difference between connected nodes, it is the
equivlaent of taking a finite difference gradient operation. This
operation is called taking the exterior derivative. The way we organize
the indices is rather arbirtray. In fact, the only way we define which
nodes are connected to each other is by writing down this matrix.
Interesting porpterties of the domain are also connected to the matrix
poroperties of thius matrix. For example, the Kernel of D is . The
Nullspace is the . Cycles and Boundaries

The voltage differences in edges are related to the currents in them by
empirical physical laws, like Ohm's law. The impedance matrix Z is
typically diagonal

$$i=Z\Delta v$$

These voltages are connected by physical laws to current flowing in the
edges

Chains and Cochains

Circuit eigenvectors

$$v_{t+dt}=(A+dtB)v$$

Circuit Stability-Numerical stability

Op-Amps are sensible amplfiiers

Transistors are not simple amplifiers in that the input and output are
not so simply related
