Fluids
------

### Conservation laws

The mass (or any substance) in a region is

$m=\int\rho dV$

or the charge in a region

$Q=\int\rho dV$

To decrease these things, we have to have it flow out of the boundary

The flow $j$ per unit area is

$\vec{j}=\rho\vec{v}$

So the rate of change of mass

$$\dot{m}=\int\partial_{t}\rho dV=\int\rho v\cdot\hat{n}dA$$

If we use Gauss' Law we can turn the right hand side into a volume
integral

$$\int\nabla\cdot(v\rho)dV=\int\rho v\cdot\hat{n}dA$$

Hence we have the differential form

$$\partial_{t}\rho-\nabla\cdot(\rho v)=0$$

This is called the contuity equation. Its a good one. Take note. We can
use some vector product rules (basically guess something that looks
product rule like and has the vectorially-ness match in the right spots
and you'll usually get it right.)

$$\partial_{t}\rho-\rho\nabla\cdot v+v\cdot\nabla\rho=0$$

Under the condition that the fluid is incompressible, all derivatives of
$\rho$vanish and we instead have

$$\nabla\cdot v=0$$

The material derivative is the changes that a particle that follows
along the flow sees. You can basically replace time derivtatives in
particle theory with this operator instead to get fluidy equations

$$D=\partial_{t}+v\cdot\nabla$$

The momentum in the fluid per unit volume is also $\rho v$

So $F=ma=m\frac{dv}{dt}=\frac{dp}{dt}$ becomes

$$D\rho v=f$$

We have to work on a per volume basis, so bscially all equations get
divided by a volume. The volumetric force $f$ is $\frac{F}{V}$

The pressure acts on all sides of a little cube, so only gradients of
pressure will create net forces. Also $p=\frac{F}{A}$ the grdient adds
an extra length in the dneominator, $\nabla p=\frac{F}{V}$. The force
pushes towards lower pressure, so put a negative sign on that sucker.

$$D\rho v=-\nabla p+f$$

Other forces that show up a lot are gravity $f=-\rho g\hat{z}$ and
noninertial centrifugal force $f=\rho\Omega\times v$ , or maybe a
charged fluid will have a electric field term $\rho_{q}E$

If we're working incompressible then we can bring that $\rho$ out

$$\rho Dv=-\nabla p+f$$

If we assume that the flluid is irrotational then $\nabla\times v=0$,
And by Helmhotlzs theroem there is a potential $v=\nabla\phi$, in the
same way electorstiac vectors can be derived from

From the incompressible condition, the potnetial obey's lapaces euqstion

$$\nabla\cdot v=\nabla^{2}\phi=0$$

SOurces on the other side of this represent regions of fluid injection
if you've got them. As an example of one of the worst idnetites in
vector calculus, we have

$$\nabla\frac{1}{2}v^{2}-(v\cdot\nabla)v=v\times(\nabla\times v)$$

It is the vector calculus version of the worst identity in regular
vector algebra, plus a use of the product rule

$$a\times(b\times c)=(b\cdot a)c-(c\cdot a)b$$

Anyhoo, we can use this in the momentum equation.

$$\rho\nabla\frac{1}{2}v^{2}=-\nabla p-\nabla\rho gz$$

$$\frac{1}{2}\rho v^{2}+p+\rho gz=\text{Const}$$

We get the Bernoulli equation after all of this.

This equation is kind of a version of Energy Conservation.

### The one way wave equation

$f(x-ct)$ Looks like a function that's sliding to the right at a
velocity c.

The 1-d version of the wave equation is

$\partial_{t}-c\partial_{x}=0$

We can make c a function of x for spatially varying wave equation

If we want to bump this up to higher dimensions, we can still have a one
way wave equation, except the function c becomes a vector function
$\vec{c}.$In this way, the way the function is moving is detemrined by
its location. The function $\vec{c}$ is like a railroad that the lumps
in the function follow.

### Vector Differential Operators

The divergence is defined as the limit of flow out of an inifitesmal box

The curl is defined as the limit of a little baby loop integral

The gradient is the limit of a little baby line integral

### Vector Potential Solutions

Vector potential soolutions are related to a bunch of electrostatic and
magnetostatic solutions.

We can use the solution of a line charge

We can use the solution for magnetic field around a striaght wire as a
vortex solution

$$v=\frac{\Gamma}{2\pi r}\hat{\phi}$$

Another good one is to use th legendre series expansion for axially
symmettric problems

$$\sum(a_{n}r^{n}+b_{n}r^{-n-1})P_{n}(\cos\theta)$$

### Viscosity

### Multipoles and 

Force is like charge, comporession and ension like dipole. Torque is
magneticy, bending moment if magentic quadroply.

### Harmonic Derivatives

$$\nabla_{l}^{m}u=\frac{1}{\epsilon^{l}}\int Y_{l}^{m}(\theta,\phi)u(r'+\epsilon r)d\Omega$$

This will split off the right terms in the Taylor series, a local
version of an orthognal function expansion. If we differentiate a vector
function

$$\nabla_{l'}^{m'}v_{l}^{m}$$

### Prediction error

So we build our estimator from a likelihood function. Now the estimator
is a random vasriable itself. Using the actual parameter, compare the
variance of a new smaple to the estimate.

Or compare properties of the new smapled to the porperties of something
pulled from our guess distribution. Bias and variance.

$$\int(x_{i+1}-x_{g})^{2}e^{(x_{i+1}-\mu)^{2}}e^{(x_{g}-\hat{\mu}(\{x_{i}\})^{2}\Sigma^{-1}}P(\{x_{i}\}|\mu)$$

$$$$
