### Reducing Rotations

$$U=z'z^{T}+x'x^{T}+y'y^{T}$$

In 2-d

$$U=x'x^{T}+y'y^{T}$$

a rtoation counterclockwise by $\theta$

$$x'=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\cos\theta\\
\sin\theta
\end{array}\right]$$

$$y'=\left[\begin{array}{c}
-\sin\theta\\
\cos\theta
\end{array}\right]$$

You can see where cosine and sine go by checking that $\theta=0$ makes
sense, and that x starts going up and y starts going left for the
correct signs.

$$U=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\cos\theta\\
\sin\theta
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 0\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{c}
-\sin\theta\\
\cos\theta
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
0 & 1\end{array}\right]$$ $$U_{2}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
\cos\theta & -\sin\theta\\
\sin\theta & \cos\theta
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\frac{d}{d\theta}U_{2}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
0 & -1\\
1 & 0
\end{array}\right]=g=-i\sigma_{2}$$

We can expand in a taylor series

$$U_{2}\approx I+\theta g$$

Does the Taylor Error theorem still hold? The Lgarange form probably
doesn't. COnsider the matrix as just a collection of functions. The same
$\xi$will not give the exact remiabneder for all of them. The mean value
theorem won't guarantee it.

By the fact we know that the angles of rotations add, we have the
identiy

$$U_{2}(\theta)U_{2}(\phi)=U_{2}(\theta+\phi)$$

We can also laboriously check this by excplicity using the matrices and
cosine and sine angle sum rules.

Similarly as a corrollary

$$U_{2}(\theta)^{n}=U_{2}(n\theta)$$

$$g^{2}=-I$$

The generators of rotation about the z axis

$$U_{z}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
U_{2} & 0\\
0 & 1
\end{array}\right]$$

$$U_{x}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 0\\
0 & U_{2}
\end{array}\right]$$

The eigenvectrs of a z axis roation are

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
0\\
0\\
1
\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
i\\
0
\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
-i\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

$$z,x+iy,x-iy$$

and correspnding set of eiegenvalues

$$1,e^{i\phi},e^{-i\phi}$$

The kronecker product is a space of $3\times3=9$ components. We can
sepearte this into the irreducible subspaces of dimension 1, 3, and 5,
corresponding to the dot product, the cross product, and the nameless
one, the traceless symmettric product. The dot product represents
projection or sameness or length. The cross porduct represents twist,
rotation, or area. The symmettric propduct represents.

To compute the decomposition, we ask for the schur decomposition of the
general rotation matrix $U\otimes U$. No\... I guess not

barycenter product?, slant product, strain product, bulging product,
permutation product,quadrupole product, box product, ellipticity product

$$dv=dr\nabla\cdot v+dr\times\nabla\times v+dr?\nabla*v=(dr\cdot\nabla)v$$

Diveregence represents expansion, and net outflow

Curl represents roation and swirliness

Bulge (Shear) represents bulge and skew and shear flow

$$u=a+Br+\ldots$$

$$B\sim u\otimes r$$

$$B=u_{x}\hat{x}+u_{y}^{T}\hat{y}+u_{z}^{T}\hat{z}$$

where u is the small displacement from original position, and r is the
original position. This can be decomposed into three objects

and expansion is given by

$$u=\alpha r$$

$$dr\cdot r=\alpha r^{2}$$

The volume change can be found by integrating over a little sphere. Only
the normal component of the dispacement to the sphere counts as
expansion.

$$dV=|r|\int u\cdot rd\Omega=r^{2}\int u\cdot Y_{1}d\Omega$$

Surface area change from expansion $d(4\pi r^{2})=$

$$dr=4\pi\alpha r$$

$$dr\cdot r=\alpha4\pi r^{2}$$

A solid roation is represented by

$$dr=\Omega\times r=U(d\theta)r$$

A box or sphere gets warped into a ellipsoid or parallelopiped. The
divergence accounts for total volumetric change, the curl accounts for
rigid turning, and finally the bulge accounts for warping of angles.

Reflections. If we allow 3 reflections to occur at not the same point,
what kind of operation do we have? How do I get skew from reflections? 2
relfections that meet at a point create a rotation about that point. Two
paralell reflections (meet at infinity projectively speaking) generate
translations (rotations about infinit points aka directions). Is an
airplane wing therefore a fan blade with the axis at inifnity?

Strain/skew is affine trnasformation, divergence is similairty, and
roation is orthogonal

What about homogrpahiuc strain? Something thaty locally seems like a
homography, cross ratio preserving. Poles could be dislocations?
Homogenous coordinates for strain? extra coorinate is atom size or
something. Or inversions orccurring in fluid flow (bubble collpase?).
Sounds possible.

The idea of a velcity field is a restirctive one. The mleucules can flow
thourgh ones another (feinetly in a gas), so the mean velocity may not
be a great specifier of the fluid. The intensity distribution in optics
is the equilvanet of a velcity distirubtion in fluids. The eikonal in
optics is the vlecity potential in fluids. The fluid green's function
for the velicty potential.. is the equivlaent of hamilton's function? I
should definetly explore the fluid-optics analogy more. The lagrange
invariant is the Klevin circulation theorem, I believe. Etendue is?
Malus' theorem is helhotlz vorticity theorem (that a field thats starts
from a potential remians a potential field). Essentially, you could do
imaging with a fluid. A big difference is the self interaction of the
fluid, but the action kind of has that built into it too. Vlecity
optential will obey neumann boundary conditions (gradient point out is
zero no fluid flows into boundary). The eikonal carries energy. The
vleocty carriers itself,mass, and energy. If iirrotational and inviscid,
you can kind of not include carryinbg itself and just say that it
carries just bernoulli energy as well. Why is the action first order
nonlinear while velocity potential is second order linear? Could take
eikonal of velocity potential, espically if compxefied (sound waves?).

Flow over airfoil as scattering. Connection to imaging? $G(p,p')$. Let's
just pretend that the vecloty field for fluids can come from
$e^{i\phi}$. The scattering term would correspond to the circulation
term. Then, the Born scattering formuyla for lift would involve the
foueir transfrom of the airfoil. Momentum in/momentum out.

$$p_{in}=\int\rho v(x\rightarrow-\infty)dy$$

$$p_{out}=\int\rho v(x\rightarrow\infty)dy$$

$$p_{out}-p_{in}=$$

Another aspect to the helmholtz system is control. The dual of
observaibility. How close to a given pattern can I build the field
(external and internal source control.)? Conventional wisdom is that I
cannot achieve significant sub wavelength focusing.
