Scttaering Hough rough equivlasnet to born integral? As in sort of a sum
of two line parameters. in and out

THermodynamics of valves. Is the diode response curve the necessary one
for any thermodynamic valve? Blotzmann esque factor? Like a johnson
noise Racthet and Pawl. What is the necessary charcteristics of a vlave
if the johnson noise can never be rectified. Fluctuation disspiation
theorem related in general. In a sense are all mechanical level devices
operating on valve energy from reservoir?

The lift theorem
----------------

The big idea is that the rate that momentum is leaving the fluid must
equal the force on the wing.

We're working in a time indepndentat system so the conservation law
reduces to just the boundary term

Is we perform the line integral

$$\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA+\int_{wing}\rho\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA=0$$

how the boundary condition ofn the wing says that nothing flows into it,
so this second integral is 0

$$\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA=0$$

The rate that momentum comes into this thing is

$$\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho\vec{v}\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA+\int_{wing}\rho\vec{v}\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA+\int\nabla pdA=0$$

The pressure diofferential on the big sphere disappears as
$R\rightarrow\infty$

Lift

$$L=-\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho\vec{v}\vec{v}\cdot\hat{n}dA$$

If we work in a z-symmetric flow, using a giant cylinder as our surface
(hopefully the encaps are neglibile)

$$L=-Z\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho\vec{v}(\vec{v}\cdot\vec{r})d\phi$$

BAC CAB identity

We can write the constant ,$v=v_{\infty}\hat{x}+v'$

$$L=-Z\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho(\vec{v}_{\infty}+\vec{v}')((\vec{v}_{\infty}+\vec{v}')\cdot\vec{r})d\phi=-Z\vec{v}_{\infty}\int_{\text{big sphere}}\rho(\vec{v}'\cdot\vec{r})d\phi+\rho\vec{v}'\cos\phi d\phi+\rho\vec{v}'(\vec{v}'\cdot\vec{r})d\phi$$

Neeeeh. Maybe not a good approach.

Linear Fluid Dynamics
---------------------

For incompressible fluids, the continuity equation reduces to

$$\nabla\cdot v=0$$

With the irrotational condition

$$\nabla\times v=\omega=0$$

Because of this we can write the volecity as a potential

$$\nabla\phi=v$$

The value of the potential

$$\int v\cdot dl=\int\nabla\phi\cdot dl=\Delta\phi$$

This

Now a small trip up. The disappearace of the curl of v only means that
the integral circulation is zero

$$\oint v\cdot dl=\iint\nabla\times v\cdot d\vec{A}$$

The closest connection to the linear theory of fluids is the theory og
mangetic potential. Outside the region of a bar magnet,
$\nabla\times H=0$ so H can be represented by a scalar potential.

In addition

$$\nabla\cdot B=\nabla\cdot(\mu H)=-\nabla\cdot(\mu\nabla\psi)=0$$

The amphere magnetic double layer is the same idea as the vortex sheet.

Each vortex line is like a wire carrying current up out at you.

### Viscosity

$$f=\nu\nabla^{2}v$$

Water is about 100 times as viscous as air.

$$\nabla^{2}v=\nabla(\nabla\cdot v)-\nabla\times(\nabla\times v)$$

Air - $1.81\times10^{-5}Pa\cdot s$

Water - $8.90\times10^{-4}Pa\cdot s$

$$F\sim\nu A\frac{v}{d}$$

Asymptotics and Boundary Layers.
--------------------------------

All the solutions you read for fluid motion smell a little of bullshit,
because to make things solvable you have to make crazy sounding
assumptions, that an armchiar man would have difficulty guessing at.
They are ultimately validated by experiment. This is always true, but
you tend to have a great deal more conifdence the physicality of your
solution to maxwrll's equations than
