Mutual Induction - one amperian dipole layer producing a flux in the
other. Pretend these are two parrallel plate capacitors. How much does
one parallel plate capaictor induce a dipole on the other one. Can use
the solid angle thoerem for potential of dipoole layers to help.
Espeically easy with ring currents

Changes of permeability lead to nxM surface currents around the
cylinder. In and out of the hall liquid presumably we have different
permeabilities.

The drift crystal. Equivlaent to a spin crystal. Compression between
neighbors created velcoty in torque directions.

Galilean transformations can convert induction problems to electrostatic
problems.A rod (or sphere) in moving frame relative to constant B opne
is rod in an correspdonign E=vxB electric field. Hence we can get the
static distribution. Perhaps a changing field can be instead be an
accerelating reference frame.

Likewise, I can use the transfromation to help solve my problem of the
wire embedded in the slightly conductive medium by using the mangetic
field as the source of my emf instead of a battery and then placing
lorentz games.

Working in the first order in v/c removes radiation. Seems to bring in
an e/m symmettry? In pure electromagnetic porlbems. The relaxation time
is unaffected since time dilation is second order in v/c.

Hence Coriolis force can traded for B forces ala Larmor's Thoerem.
Similarities between fluid dynamics and Electromagnetics. If J = J in
the two, then E comes from the pressures = potetnial. Vorticity in J is
source for H as a potential.

Rotating reference frames

Charges layers form in going from one dcoductivty to another. Because E
field is doifferent in the two media. How does this apply to rectifiying
junctions?

squared Fluctuations in E would leads to a fluctutional charge layer.
Fluctations related to tempruature? Recitifying junction perhaps
requires relation bewteen denisty and conductivty, since apparently
closer to a compressible flow.

Torque converter is analogous to eddy current. Vorticity is introduced
at top plate, diffuses through honey, to reach bottom eventually.

Full time dependant charging problems. Include
$\partial_{t}\rho+\nabla\cdot J=0$

Converting Between where to put the wavelength cutoff where we just dump
J into permability. Would lead to a dynamical relation between increases
in permability. Then permeability wants to decay to its equilbirum
value, this decay is done by conversion to heat. Turbulence.

Can solve for roatitng Disk. Use J = vxB v=wxr and The fact that J is
solenoidal so B = B0 + $\int_{0}^{r}Jrdr$.

Solve for constant velcotiy homgenous plate Then disappearance of
external B. Diffusive decay of J

$\tau\dot{J}=\sigma E-J$. If time scale long, then we have ohm's law.

Similarly $\dot{P}=\chi E-P$. What this means is that we can overextend
the polarization and it'l decay back.

However, this relation leads to plasmons. Surface plamsons

$\dot{M}=\chi B-M$ we over magnetize then it will relax. unless too fast
to relax. Then we might get surface magnetization waves. Magnons? These
are effective some kind of permeability or permittivty wave in a sense.

Resistors have charge at their ends, hence slight capacitance.

Capacitance of spinning Wheel - Faraday generator.

Eddy Currents are crititcally damped waves. Halfway between waves and
statics.

Fraday generastor. If left alone can equilbiriate by charging axle
relative to rim
