Chemical potential. Tempurature is a tendency for headt to flow
(Entropy). Pressure is a tendecy to grow (Volume). Chemical potential is
a tendnecy tpo diffuse or react (Number). Differences in pressure and
temrpurature can cause diffusion to occur, so not inrealted

Do caucvhy convergence style for FEM. Can we solve for how dividing the
h size by two will change the answer? Maybe that becomes a 2x2 system?

nested Bandwiddth spaces

Sampling space

FIR control theory

Control in scale space?

Seperate Data space into Training subspace and Validation subspace with
projection matrix T and V. Get closed form for regularization paramater?
Do one out cross validation for all

First minimze TATx-Ty. Then minimize AVx-Vy wrt respect to
regularization oparameter.

Recusive least squares is due to the conjugate prior and sufficents
statistic prooperties of gaussians

Unidrected graphs are symmtteric like diffusion or random walk. Directed
are one-way wave. splitting diffusion step into two a suggestion and
rejection step each is one way.

Control thoery - instability may arize due too large sampling time

BJT model - Diffusion Current, Applied field current, relaxation current
(tenedency of electrical system to become neatural. Necessary for
depletion layer to make sense.)?. Do I need both minority and majority?.
np\>0 and nh\>0 important? What makes p vs n? minority can only diffuse
not conduct? a porduction term (thermal generation) proportional to
boltzmann factor. Include potential in botlzmann factor to get self
consistant eq. like in fermi. Recombination is proprtional to square of
hole and electron.

One way of saying law of mobility is that electric potential is
poroprtional to velocity potential $\phi_{v}=\mu\phi_{E}$. Is velocity
potential a legitimate thermodynamic potential? Could go into ensemlbe
as a v term.

How well can you use fluids to describe electrical current. Is
resistivity due to coulomb scattering (inertial) or a viscosity esque
thing. Ohm's law in fluids would come from viscoity.

Orindary ohmic conduction seems very much like viscous flow wheras
supercondcity seems like inviscid flow. Both are fairly incompressible.
Equivlaent of a Reynalods number? Two fluid model is boundary layer
viscous part and outside intertial part

Do thermo pontetials have to be single valued? Battery in a circuit,
seems like you go round and round. Well. That isn't equibirum

Modify maxwell's equatios with thermo terms. if E is force per unit
charge, then \... hmmm.

Pressure is typically thought of as a force. But it fits better into the
category of a potential due to its nondirctionality. $\frac{p}{\rho}$.
$U=Vp$ just like $U=q\phi$. For small objects.$dU=Vdp=V\nabla p\cdot dx$
. $\int pdV$ is the "energy" that you lose in the fluyid when you place
an object there. Volume is the charge to pressure's potential. pressure
is the work you can extract dragging an object through a pressure fielf.
For small objects for ezxample. Prsssure is the p0otential of the
bouyancy force. Pressure for ficed volume is like electroastic of fixed
test charge. Pressure for varying volume is like energy of capacitor.

The hall effect and fluid flow. Related to the many valued potential in
sommerfled. Vortex fi,mate inb magnetic field porducing wire

$v=\mu(E+v\times B)$

$(I+\mu B\times)v=\mu E$

High mobilitty B dominates, low mibility E dominates

Technique: Piecewise linear differential equations: Solve the shit out
of them, but then leave transition points between behavior as varitional
parameters.I guess that is basically how car crashes are simultated. Two
fluid model, viscous and invscid, expand to many fluid operating around
fixed point V. Isn't this going to be sound? . Big vector space with
sparse regulator To make sure it only picks one. Of course, how many
problems are really nonlinear ones?

What is the function space of thermodynamic response functions. I do not
think it can be completely general, since perfect rectification seems
out of the question. Sums of exponentials? Meromorphics?

Ultimately it cannot be used to defeat the second law. So one expects a
couple things: 1. 0 response at zero potential difference 2. Negative on
left positive on right. 3.Not evenness and oddness, but a certain kind
of symmettry nevertheless. 4. cannot recitify fluctuations. Fluctuation
dissipation thoerme is corrolary of this.

One side of membrane has certain fluctations, other side has others

Root locus and landau thoery. Using lagrange polynmoials in
explanbatiuon of perturbation of root equations. Writing down the
differential equations of root movement.

thermodynamic compartment model of transistor
