Topology and the laplacian. The same way the linearized analysis of
structures can tell what kind of kinematic mechainisms it possess as
nullspace of matrix, laplacian of domain would occur in elastic
distortion of a domain. We Can therefore strangley determine some of the
topological properties that maintain themselkves under distortions.

The vector potential and energy syrfaces. Can We can consder
electrostatics to be The ground state (in regards to the EM field)
projected energy potentials

Energy surfaces say that there may be secret High potential energy
curves floating above ours that we may be able to access at degeracy
points.

Is the displacement current excised maxwell's equations + continutiuy
equation of charge a fully self consistent theoory?

I hyopthesize that the first order in freqeuncy thoery of circuit thoery
and the first order in v/c thoery (galilean) are the same.

The contuity equation is guraneteed by the displacement current term
ordinarily.

A wire passing through a magnetic field builds a charge distrubtion
quite quickly on its external surface to counteract the magnetomotive
force. A wire moving in a uniform magnetic fild can be galilean boosted.
Hence we can get the chrage distribution on the exteriori of the wire as
the equivlaent distrubition as if we had placed the wire
electrostatically into a electric field of E = vxB

Like wise in a thin sheet.

This theory corresponds to circuit thoery quite nicely.

Eddy currents are extremely explainable in terms of inductors resistors
and capacitors.

Key to understanding eddy currents is the idea of charging up. Very
often the elevctromotive force supplied by the masgnetic induction is
suppressed by a charging. It is only when the times involved are not
long enough to charge to completion (RC times are large) or .

When we cut tines into a disk and see a loss of eddy currents, it is
because we have inserted capaictors in series with our inductors and
resistors.

You MUST consider wheher the finite nature of youir object is important
or not.

The single wire. In terms of circuits doesn't make much sense. As a
continuum problem In the non displacement current domain, it does.

One method of combining solutions is the variational method. Then we may
have overlap integrals, "Resonances " if you will. In this way we can
find parameters that please us. "Effective" Lengths of capcitors, etc.
How do you deal with The fact that typically the stuff you want to use
Isn't 0 in the places you need it be? ad hoc suggestion - add penalty
term related to obeying boundrary condition. Then you can juggle
parameters to judge how much boundary violation bothers you versus how
much exterior violation bothers you. In fact, if you're using harmonic
functions, then perhaps its most reasonable to JUST conisder the
boundary violation (via green's theorem) and attempt to minimize it.

Fun idea about patching together solutions: For example the self
inductnace. Use a regularization paramter, whatevers convenet to cutoff
length scale correctly. Then can variationally find best cutoff scale in
the minimzation integral to patch together the solutions. For example a
wire would be doone by using the 2d slution that decays axially with the
length scale of the local radius of curvature and decays radially
roughly as the size of our loop + a external dipole field that has
perhaps a smooth cutoff befor r=zero. Then we can actuallymathematically
say that our solution is pretty good. although we can estimate our
cutoffs from physical considerations.

I'm finding that physical intution is not super trustworthy in saying
how much far away parts of lplace pproblems effect parts nearby. Quite
porblably this is Topology at play. If I cannot stretch an object
sufficiently such that the parts can be condsidered seperately, there is
some toplogy at play, since it is a porperty indepdnant of stretching.
Look for Necessary loops and such.

Capacitance as eigenvalue problem. Boundary perturbations expansion.
Lowest eigenvalue = constant voltage change at boundary = capacitance.
Next order might be for example, dipole mment porduced per incidnet
electrostatic field = recption abillity of large waevength verssus small
antenna.

Wick Rotation = consider a torus that is very skinny compared to its
main radius as a cavity resonator or in a heat diffusion situation. Then
the heltmoholtz equation from it has an imaginaru part and is periodic
in the circumferential corrdinate.

Adding a conductivty to maxwell's equations instantly creates
cuasuality. It changes the $\omega^{2}$ to a $\omega^{2}+i\sigma\omega$.
But wait. That is not the time ordered prescription. That's causal.

The transient response of a wire. If we wan time scales such that
$\delta=\sqrt{\frac{2}{\sigma\omega\mu}}$. $a^{2}\sigma\mu=\tau$. This
is the L/R time. Is that the pertinent one or is it the RC time? If we
don't care about the transient response of the charge reordeirng Itself
then at timescales much larger than this we can ignore thickness of
wire. likewise for thin sheets

Indcution forces in stress strain theory? EMF? vxB law? Magnus Force
perhaps.

The nonlinear relationship Between H and B and the implcit persistent
currents at the edges of a material might make for a fun apprach to

Chern-simons = Thin plate Magnetics?

Thin Rods
---------

Thins rods in an applied electric field at infinity.

Far field of rod is approximately dipolar. Near field of rod is
approximately a linear distrubition of surface charge going up the rod.

The linear distribution must depend on the projected orientation of the
rod onto the E field. $\sigma\propto z*E\cdot n$. The end caps of the
rod? Are they extremely charged? I think they are flat plates with
surfaces charge that is roughly that needed to produce imposed field,
which would mean total end charge disappears as $a^{2}$, so irrelevant
to distribution on rod and external.

Similarity between this problem and that of the elastic problem of the
thin rod with a load on it.

Perpendicular electric field problem, reduces to 2d problem where it has
ciruclar corsssection and an image dipole forms in the center.

The axial magnitudes should dominate. But if the field is applied
completely perpendicularly, or nearly, then we have the equivlanet of
the beam equations where the dipole moment across the rod is something
like the bending moment.

Capacitance of two rods at angles to each other? - reduces to
capacitances of spheres at large distance, somewhat 2d problem at near
distance except for the angles incolved.

Electrostatics of threads or threadlike voids. Can include all kinds of
crazy branching, looping,

Relation of thin rod problem to ohmic conduction. In ohmic conduction,
we have a constant E field inside and then charge distribution on the
surface (really this charge keeps this field going). In the thin rod
problem, we have an external E field that must be counteracted by the
induced charge on the surface.

Thin sheets
-----------

Capacitance of circular metal sheets. SHould be related to solid angle
they expose to one another. Etendue?
