Transient particle thourgh conducting medium (or complex dielectric, in
$\omega$ domain doesn't look any different). This is essentiallly an
eddy current problem for electric charge instead of magnetic charge. The
magnet falling thourgh the block is quite similar to the charge flying
through the material.

$\delta(r-vt)$ is useful.

Likewise $n\cdot\nabla\delta(r-vt)$ might be quite useful for dipole
motion.

The transient response of metals to applied electric field. Capacitors
resistors and inductors.

Essentially, again we can ignore displacement current.

In what sense is maxwell, minus the induction $\partial B/\partial t$
part a consitsent system? That would be the real equilvanet of eddy
currents in electric field.

Will charge ever build inside the coductor? Steady state homogenouys
conductors, no.
$\nabla\cdot j=0=\nabla\cdot\sigma E=\sigma\nabla\cdot E=\rho\sigma$.

Periodic systems
$\nabla\cdot j=i\omega\rho=\nabla\cdot\sigma E=\sigma\nabla\cdot E=\rho\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon}$.
So no (unless permittivty imginary?). What about laplace transient
system, then perhaps yes. $s=\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon}$WHich is some
analog of the RC time.

How fast does a delta of charge dissipate? apparently in homgenous
$\rho=\rho_{0}(x)e^{-t\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon}}$. Huh. The electric field
is just that of a point charge, hence so is the current. Then the
induction magentic field is 0? since curl of E = 0. At the very least is
does not change with time.

A segment of homogenous conductor is equivlaent to a capacitor in
parrallel with a resistor. Conection to the capiactyance resitance
theorem.

The energy dissipated during this process in inifnite. We destory the
self energy of the electron. However, We're actually creating the debye
layer around the bare charge, which means we have a cutoff parameter at
the debye length, basically in which the ohm's law and permittivty law
fail.

Dischrage of an ininite surface charge layer. Transient formation of
charge layer between different conductors.

For appxorimations ( replacing finite structures by infinite ones etc)
what one can do is just add and subtract our guess for the firled or our
charge distribution, then recollect. The difference between our guess
solution and the actual problem can be then shown to be small or perhaps
approximable in some nice way.

For example charged spehre apporximate by infintie plane for nearby.
E=$\int dV\frac{\rho+\sigma-\sigma}{r^{2}}\hat{r}$. We can appoximate
the difference between the sheet and the ball in the curvature of the
region. Then we're left over with an inifnite plane with a hole and a
ball with a hole. The inifnite plane can be shown to be mostly
neglgible, but the hole ball can't

Or finite rod by inifnite rod, we can see the inifnte rod contribution
gets small if you're near the cetner,

$\nabla\times j/\sigma=-\partial_{t}B$

$\nabla\times H=j$

$\nabla\cdot j=-\partial_{t}\rho$

Difference in geoemtry vs difference in distiburtion. Landau solved the
problem by adding and subtracting a differene of disttibution. Very
clever. That was for a polarization problem where we apply a field.

Making a electric field parrallel to the axis, the linear charge
distribution.

Applying fields at an angle to a half space = transient charging to
surface + linear charge distribtuion.

SImplest edge effect: two planes of different potential meeting at an
interface. (The essdentailly 2d problem where Potential is just
proptional to angle.)
