Compressible edge
-----------------

Let us ignore fractional for the moment

If the density of electrons changes smoothly (Why? because the
electrostatics change where the chemical potential is. This is an age
old confusing point of the chemical potential. Is the chemical
potentinal constant and the energy levels shifted or the chemical
potential varying. I believe it is more conveneitn to take the onvention
that the chemical lpotential is varying. If it changes slowly, we have
an effective equlibrium within ), then it has to cross the conditions
that fill a landau level (integer filling factor achieved by changing
n). There is a small incompressible strip there. What is width of
thisstrip? Must be bigger than cyclotron radius if the story makes any
sense. Energetically determined from electrostatics. given a perfectly
willing fluid the electrostatics would make such and such assurendly
smooth desnity porfile. The competing energy is the cyclotron energy? so
the strip is determined by the condition that the unahppieness of the
electrostatics = the landau energy

n this small strip, the chemical potential

In between the strips the landau levels are partially filled. the
chmical potential is stuck at the landau level and the electric field is
shielded out (super completely?). These regions are metallic-ish.

The dge is described by

It feels kind of like a set of different metals being held together with
different work functions. A polarized region appears between them.

A more principled approahs would be to consider the free energy and a
nonlinear $n(\mu)/\mu(n)$ + the electrostatic energy

Big questions: why does this compressiblity not effect the quantization
of hall resistance. I believe the location of the current is somewhat
contentious. My inital impressions is that the electric filed is in the
incompressbiel strips so those are whipping along. TO carry more current
they have to widen (Hence this ooccurs at the edge of the incomrpessible
and compressible reiogn and one could attirbute it to either.) When they
widen

Polarization: The filled landau level is an inert thing. It can only
polarize by interaction with the higher levels. But so too goes the
story of polarization and the berry phase. Fractional effects can
polarize by interaction within the lowest landau level since that
subspace develops a gap.
