Ematching false
Mbqi
Model converter

Equivalent
Equisatisfiable
Weakening
Strengthening

Goal + current db go into z3. Hmm.

Lean has a specturm of hash consed ba not

Dependency as lightweight proof
Equality nodes as bools… hmmmmmm…. Hmmmmm
Chc adt

Bliss saucy symmettry reduction
Maude decompiler
Peephole
Mathematica tut for rewriting
Annihilation creation ops
Manual apply
Debugger is tactic mode
Geometry prover

Fully manual egglog like sasylf. Could be as wildly successful as that system. Extract and record proof term. Manual rule apply
Zero order logic
Extension points
User defined theories output actions?
Comments
Throw goal in z3 with db translation. Ematching in egglog layer and then z3 has no quantifiers. Or nearly none
Apply tactic with lartial application. Just iniatiate subst dict?

Semantic transforatuon rewrite rules. Very introguing.
David wiap i cremental souffle

Elpi has new features. In coq proper someday?
Marabou

Dual of egraph as target in goal? The disjunction of equalities?

Observational equivalence… hmmm. Synthesis. Make equivalent terms equal/structure share
Stratified?
Non recursive observations… hmm. Interesting. The whole poont ai thought was this recursion,
Decreaning observatuons make more things equal. Ids are an ibservation.
Ibserving literal expression structure and then decreasing observations by hiding layers.

Flattening tree into linked list.

Query containment - explicit homorphism as function symbol
Avigad
Cody gappa + egraph
Boole?
Nathematixa mining for interesting rewrite systems
Rubi

What is destructive rewriting says max. Garbage collection says I?
Typeclass/traits resolution. Demand is more subtle/impossible for harrop?

Starfunski
Aegraph as rewriting?
Write magic set transform in rust as syntax
Realizers double negation harrop

E
You can lift a path to a path transformer. Yoneda. Should I have done that for the derivatives in z3? User defined propagators in z3. Smt modulo convex optimization

Just do not normalize output of termlike functions. This means bad terms won’t be found during query. We retain

Dynamic stratification. Strata determined at runtime. Running connected compineny at runtime. I guess you only need to determine this
If I want a metainterpreter with negation I must need this right?

Finite cofinite. Datafun. Datafun python comprehension

Cerberus translates C into a functional languaeg

Sam said matlab talk was good
Jimmy adding fixed points

Is refinement and separation/hoare really on the same level?
Certikos is refinement?

Sci cert
Ryn doenges
John scacciano. Mirror something smt for coq? Compact forest
Compisitonal partial evaluation compilation?

Carette. Interlocking polynomuals
Agda catgeory has equational proofs. Maple?
Sage

Lean
Mapl

Metaobject protocol
Egraph defompiler
Provenance compiler
Position indepednent code
Patch space
 Pdb windows debug format

Compiler framework

Observations go down equalities go up
Temporal datalog might want to model check. Atuomatalog becomes natural. I guess I kind of already knew that, but the bloom and temportal logic connection is new
Geometry datalog
Bottom up enumerative synthesis. Why isn’t this expressivle in datalog or is it?
Generate terms. Eval on all observations

If gj is like bdd, is there a fast count aggregate?
Context for unification in orolog + search

What is a unit clause? This is not something that really matters much in prolog
Datalog is a database of unit clauses

Msl automata clauses. Hogierh order model checking. Intersection types. Really intriguing

Resolution that obly derives decreasing clauses. Matching on head will usually not do this
Dually backwards resolution as a separate arena.
Hmm.
What about vampire as a stream of goals?

Hopcrocts trick, reuse id for largest partition

Storm pribablistic model checker

Stephen ramsey - agrees natural reasoning principle makes sense. Only reductive resolution.

Carry the egraph? They are interested in tabling
Harrop is essential
There is backtracking.
Egraph unification. Could have more use cases
Prolog modulo term rewriting

Expectation predicate for positive examples

Sets for mathematics

Sqlite drop in C file.
Greenberg
Bombanek
Greenberg thinks lambda prolog is garbage
Kat is also not good unless you want completeness?
“Datalog upto” because we can’t observe the differences we are safe. “Does this term have a plus”
He’s right. Datalog modulo theories is fucked. I guess only observational equivalence

Residualization in functiobal logic

Chat with niko sometime
Chat with bombanek sometime
Catgeory theory in context for examples

Chris? Uhhhhh
Z3 pastebin

Asp with lattices

When can you observe datalog modulo rewirtin

Ask what she likes in bed
Clean when she cleans
Is she happier having me come over? Our schedules are different.
Vacation eventually
I guess don’t count chickens or xome on strong. I’m affection starved. I like her right?

Popl summary
Puzzle hunt summary

What if I used E just as a tabling database? Not as the inference. It is the analog of the egraph vs the saturation

Litelog C
Z3 as an egg
Asp compiler backend
Forall via count
Rust tactical prover
Prolog interpreter
Rust trait solving - prolog elp models.

Hoare python. Incorrectness pythonu
Eggraph decomp
Ghidra interactive theorem

Monotonicity checker is a interesting subproblem. Datafun is a type system for purely functional comprehensions

Dumb egglog embedded in python. More hacking

Finite compile time contexts seems easier to me despite what eli says. Useful for case tactics. Termination guarded rewrite rules

Comefrom is no joke. Aspect oriented. Phi nodes. CEI. Reversible computing. What is the continuation version? Marked holes?

Difference lists in egglog. Resource usage. Sometimes we need to copy sometimes not. Using union find as subsitution. Cofunction had this expansion idea. Propgate copying. Like in optimal reduction moving those dup nodes
Copy_term?
Marking eid as dup somehow…

Refinement types as subsorting. (define-sort). Insert predicate checks in body. Or is it into heads going into?

The datatyoe condition is an occurs check. Huh.
Maybe terms just have an occurs check
Demodulator * ctxsimplfiy sounds like a rewrite engine!

Whitcomb and mountqin

Implicit dynamic frames
Grasshopper
Cyclist for separation logic proofs

Elfmaster shiva
Will bowman typed assembly?

Set of units as proof object: dependencies. We could add rule tags and unit tags as things added to dependency sets. Union seems very coarse. Smallest set seems better but. Is that a minplus ring? No it doesnt have the right laws.. hmm. It’s a fold of the proof tree. Multiset?

Noninterference proof of egglog correctness? We don’t leak information about eid choices.
Like a security type modality to step in and out of that world?

Hashing as a fixed point?
Scc using egraph. Zach and yihong were talking about it
What if I had 2 union finds. How do I pick?
Datalog on the nose/different notions of autojoin
Graph canonicalization of egraph. Or… condensation graph of egraph? Is that useful?

Taint provenance. Hmmm. Instructions that taint highlevel concepts.

Dwarf writer
Spec carrying code
Dumping more shit into elf.

Progress bar for smt

Git for binaries

We need to fill the context gamma of our patch code interpreter

Dwarf to type data

Talk to binge guy
Talk to osborne

Go hard on rust dwarf.
Go hard on dumping into elf sections
Joining with tree sitter
Trail of bits
Work from source. Fuck decompilers
Dwarf
Binge

Totally manual dwarf annotation of source
How do I do it?
Tree sitter? Hiw do I even
Syntactic pisition
Print out code

Build a linker. Build a compiler framework
Spec synthesis
Expandable 00 01
Do. Compilers respect programmers talk

Anghabench
Allstar
Backtrace elfmaster ptobuf debuggers
Kaitai struct

Translate imperative programs to pure functional and then use datafun to verofy monotoncity.

Sets of proofs. A kleene algebra expression expresses them. Huh. t^n is all proofs of whatever. Different rule sets. Subset relations between proof sets

Sergey: god what a master at his craft

Bpf
Hooks
Har change specification
Send mary email about slides

Type info out of binja to smtlib. I hate bap anyway. Although bapc is a shining example of good functionality.

Relocations and symbols vs templates
What would elf for text files look like?
Elf is a mix of concepts and binary format annoyance.
I could make a linking format for textual assembly.
Nand2tetris linker

Why was I unhappy?
Things I don’t think can go anywhere sucking my enthusiasm
Stress about talk
Imposter syndrome
People doubting my good ideas
Bad time management feeling like I cant do anything
Too many things to do. Including egg stuff.
Fomo
Culture that I reject being in my face

Tree sitter dwarf. Tree sitter egglog. Tree sitter litelog

Equality in egglog has unit truth value. Hmm. That’s not great.
Semiring semantics says there should be a multiplication operation too.
(Truth biz :add)
Rules work in a truth value.

Pilyhedra as forst class set vs global inequality object
A path is a dual vector to an inequality proof in the differrnce domain
Difference logic as datalog. We can do shortest path. So we can already do this?

Everything is functions is the mantra of stlc as a logic

Set up meeting with ed kmett

Observed as a flag? Freezes arg so can’t be normalized underneath. Or just define allowable observations as thise forward closed under evaluation, like lattices. Upper bound on termination metric for example. Length or depth as a lattice value
Could notice when no rule will ever apply. Kind of a closed world assumptions.

When rebuild rows, sort them. Canonical rep.
You can’t have a stable total order on eids. It needs to be repaired. This removes 2 in add, but 5! In add5. Normalize to flat rep. Prefix Trie for AC. Ordering is probably useful in query. Query can reexpand permutations

Datalog modules are rulesets. User defined rulesets.
C2smt

Minimal datalog to sqlite. Linear variables. Explicit equalities. Naive execution

Parser generators give you a fold. Implemented on a stack.

 Category in maude
Lean
Sqlite c datalog
Z3 egglog
Asp compiler
Rust traits
Rust prover
Gappa
Geometry
Lean calc

Decompiler to wasm
Translate agda category to lean

Trabslate parts to lean

Vagueness vs orecusion
Two separate things. Mule is dwarf++
DONK is elf++ (a patching / linking / loading format)
Pcode to sail

Mule
Ingest dwarf
Output vibes jsob
To and from json
Write from binja
Weite up wood working

Talk to kmett, nico
Egraphs workshop on theorem prover
50 year tech stack

Window
Drawer
Can I take a symbolic exector and turn it hoare? Angr?
Could egglog emulation of _tabled_ prolog be easier? Since it memoizes?

Aren’t tabling and magic set like… the same thing?
Magic set = consumer? Producer?
Unification hints?
I guess stock typeclasses never infer variables
Is angr management good?

Partial evaluation of interpreter for recompilation
Could I literally use lean.meta as a framework for a lambda datalog?
Valentines
Yara datalog
A row is a colagebraic entity, and each column is a field. This is the analog of thinoing of coalgebraic object as record
A table is a sort. Dropping columns is allowed= dropping observations
Object oriented databases/knlwoedge bases
More nuanced notion of observation. Observations can be in unknown state (option) and observations can change. Equality becomes true false unnown to check for equivalence

Tables vs columns being complete / needed in strata. Horizontal stratification
I guess observation tables corresponds to this
Needed tables goes down rather than up in strata
Eggfrog. Datafrog + merge dicts
Countrrexample guided propagator or rule discovery. Or headed rules + failure rules
Label eq class by observations (which may include prev observations) Iterate

Eggtact
Codeql is an object oriented datalog
Don’t canonize automatalog? Being in same eq class is not confirmed until sealed or observationally complete
Liveness rather than reachability

Closed world assumption and closed datatype match for inductive datatypes
Open codatatypes are extensible records?
Functor F bundles observations and successor. Succ is a kind of observation

Minimization
Equivalence
Find sim

The tool is fine. Learn how to use it.

Longhorn questions:
excised

Go to coffee shop?

Kat equiv checking
Useful to internalize reasoning about egglog scheduling
Kat modulo equality
Automatalog

Spec synthesis using chatgpt
Leanlog - embedded datalog in lean. Could use
Lean parts - partial evaluation
The dual of automata minimization is congruence closure?
Holpy assembly
Get a therapist
Lean as an atp framework
Meditation
House plants zz, cactus, spider
Look for new job. I’m in a rut. Things are gonna take another year to get better
“I should have quite last october”. I was depressed at bens wedding
Lobsters

Music
Writing

Journaling
Try going to coffee shop/library
Get a blood test

Get a new job? Should at least look right?
2 apple thieves. Anchor.fm. When could we do it where it isn’t burdensome? Topics: load up
Cody’s podcast
Micro-vibes. Clingo + call gcc
Tricking
 1 use abi
 2 use function calls
 3 use inline assembly pre and postlude
 4 textually swap registers everywhere
  “ spilling” into callee saved regs
Prolog decompiler (swi bindings) + angr

Knuth bendix on ground equations?
Rent
Sign up for Siemens thing
Hash consing hash conses - use tries

Risc v emulator to overload into z3

Macro assembler in ocaml (lean)
Jit ocaml? Dynlink + c call? How to reenter. Whole function seems doable. Typestate for assembly? Jit and patching. Pypy as library
Imp with holes as patching. Binary with holes
Glsl feedback, vaporwave, vhholpy

A proof oriented compiler. Compete non inference. Just description
 Dwarf verification conditions

The meaning of an expression with vars. is a function that takes in a place to put the output and pruduces code and places to put inputs. Named vs unnamed holes. We need ti know named regs already allocated
Var -> reg) -> Reg -> code , (var -> reg)
The meaning of a statement is
(Var -> reg) -> code, var -> reg
A reversed store transformer
Borrowing the host vars is challenging
Set reg live set. Bind allocates new reg.
Compiler combinators
Parser combinators
Multiple continuations for different gotos. Tail call elim. Return right there
Just tell then to write the patch in the right way.
Deep patterns need a context datatype. Like boolean expr simplification. Yucky. It is compisitional thiugh for new patterns
Calculating decompilers

Generating metamath proofs from datalog analyses
Use mmap in ocaml or python to write my own loader

Binary iperations make a tiny scope. Stack machines are all about scope
Build the compiler as a functional program in z3
Decompiling expressions. Undoing cse, constant folding
Typed assembly as a tagless dsl

Multiple equalities. Use weakest equality and inject. Write out homomorphism/ equality lifting. Compile(foo)= asm
Separate egraphs per block. Extract and transfer at edges?
Refinement as having more or less equalities?
Well, equalty relation refinements

What is ematching on ground confluent rewrite system
Graph rewriting nondestructive. Use persistent sata structurd + intern
Chr for destructive graph rewriting
Chr for datalog modulo term rewriting
Graph rewriting combinators, categorical rewriting
Sea of nodes chr
Flattening is embedding trtm rewriting in graph rewriting
Scasp

Automata and optimisitc unknown/undef
Undefined in a dfa. Disallowed transitions. Makes sense
Optimistic optimizations
Jit and incorrectness logic
Algorithms to live by: lazy evaluation. Don’t do your work early, sometimes it isnt needed

Tabled lambda prolog metainterpeter

Metaocaml style jit? Macro
Jit using approximate sampled invariants?
Refinement checking of unsafe imp in pure z3
Dead code elimination

Tree automata as a gadt
Regexp as gadt
Tree automata are just a finite state fold?
But like interactive maybe. A fold that takes inoutd?
Vellum

Tree shaking
Norman ramsey book
Brzozwaki derivatives in egglog
Incorrectness logic and jit

Egglog as a midel checker
Automatalog as a model checker
Suffix discrimination tries for subterms. Can I hash cons with a trie? Without generating unique keys?

Speccing escaping mechanisms
Sqlite for string database
Ropes
Incremental insertion into ground trs like egraph
Run trs = egraph lookup.
Completion and reduction = rebuilding and canonization
Reduction of trs ~ path compression
Stratification derived using lfp logical rules. Seminaive using R and not Rprev. Datalog is model producing. Model production of fol is hard

Tombstoning in sqlite
Streaming sqlite. Watermarks
Detect fixed point by checking is vector clocks change
Class rule

Terms can be mapped into sets of paths. One can imagine ordering those.
Chr sqlite, use return value as temp database

Lfp logic is second order version of mu operator
Model check lfp formula using prolog + tabling
Context patterns are a higher order pattern?
Context guarded rewrites and context analysies
Find all subterms and return contexts

Model checking on a database
This could be useful to scale explicit state model checking across tons of machines

String rewriting
Diffs
Term rewriting, tree edit
Graph rewriting graph edit
Does graph edit preserve bisimulation
Or transfer it

Tree editting expressions. Does the semantics change good?
Editting strings to change their parses
Editting dfa to new regex
Edit a KAT?
Compile propositional while to kat. Allow kat rewriting
Now edit kat expression for edit in whole expression

Forall s s1, the_same s s1 -> execasm s1 s2 -> ex s3 exechigh s  s3 and var s2 = var s3

Saying this for two variables on the same s3 is stronger than for on different s3 or on different traces
Abstract dwarf

How to turn a symbolic executor into a verifier. Bounded unrolling, its the same thing
Cut graph to make acyclic. Add invariants in those edges. Asserts and assumes

Compositional and one pass are related notions

Timestamp of rowid. Synchronize them or storea vector clock per rule
Sharing a graph context. A box with all the ports of the slice. We can break it up maybe if we
Sealed vs unsealed subgraphs. Have we disconnected it or not?
Feynman diagrams. Sharing outer graphs
Slow copying

Functional logic programminng
Narrowing
Bubbling
Choice nodes

Bind foo fun row ->
Foo(row). The table it is in is a property observation of row.
Output in egglog is kind of row id.
Coonductive deduplication of row id
Rowid ought to be opaque, like state.
Observation f is sum of all table types
Coinductive chase/cochase
Orm
Codeql
Incompelte nodes observe to a unique named marker. We may drop this marker or subsume it wth observations. A named null. Named none. This is a useful concept
Lexicographic named none
Model checking fixed point formula using datalog

Model check first order logic formula using sql? Chapter in alice book

Fixed point logic is a good basis for mixed greatest and least fixed points. Automatalog

Is egglog/datalog a model checker, not a prover?

Sqlite datafun

De bruijn indices as context fragments

Z3 encoding of asp using justification
Scasp in z3?

Generic join for good indexed dsl
Sql join union,l

Parsing and serializing hashcons trees to compressed strings

Maude bitvector simplifier
Can I dump a finite database into maude? Definitely.
Encoding datalog in maude is easy too I’m sure.
Rewrite fact -> true + memoize o
Or use order sort equations

Or use order sort system

Lazy unsharing
Delimitted contexts. Hash cons holds map of contexts at point?
Point to head of context + path of list of integers
Lto enables inlining?

401k
Collision update in sql
Dwarf in sql. Sqlite enables sharing. Ubiquitous. Fast.
Algebra of programming in sql. Datafun sql

Fuzzing bon interference. Huh
String algorithms
Automata alogirthms

Angr verifier via cfg cuts
Angr model explorer
Cbat colab
Examples from vst and frama c
Challenge problem
Micro vibes
Sqlite views
On conflict lattice update

Could an ORM make tree structures easy?
Model extension or homomorphism construction
Gecode virtual tables as propagators
Python match statement as new
Is path indexing a natural unification dfilter?

Automata minimization in sql.
Quell and rel references. T linq. Nada amin sql to c
Recstep
Algebraic effects
Postgres merge
Order by group by. First class sets?
Read manuals to curb: nginx apache gcc acsl vst
Ematching as term generation
Just match all right hand sides. You need to parse them?
Reduce matches with respect to system
Also match critical pairs? Build up partial matches from lhs and glue?
Skip list. Maintain sibling pointers. Struct of arrays transformation on enum rep
Infinite family of strings. Bind variables depth first is repeated prefix string queries
1 way of representing families of strings is automata
Each state is an eid. Minimization is canonicalizatiob. Shiiiiiiiiiiit
Is the ground rewrite system a regular grammar not cfg?
Generically string rewrite cant be a regular grammar. But maybe a confluent terminating one can be converted
Parsing as deduction. Rewriting as deduction

Parser generator abuse. I could get into that. Parsing as deduction. Parsers as theorem provers. Lambek grammars. Reasons why can’t parse is countermodel production? Boolean grammars. Dcg. Warren article. Formal languages.
Automata, rewrites, deduction, horn clauses, grammars, regexp

Functional logic programming
Prolog lambda to return terms. I guess one arg predicate works. Lam x, x = foo is a term returning pred. Use lambdas as Prog env? Hmm but lambdas are encapsulating goals G, not D. Unless we structurally compare a term I guess.
Assert but never retract. Retain key idientofying pathway

Shoes, cleaning servuce, skin care, set up media pc?

Images made of lines like glitch claw
Iterated birghtness graphs. No the spacing should be prop to brightness
Contour lines of integral?

Laser cut coasters
Diorama

Slog

String termination using linear programming. Weights can be seen as a + x interpretation. Coefficients of variables
Money
Automata based string termination?

Automata regex finite state machine

Lam G. G = head. Maybe that’s a good way of doing it
Ask chatgpt

Mark rule as view. Repeat view.

Just get micropost of naive minimization. It’s fun

Spreadsheet risc v
Maude partial evaluation
Maude ghc rules
Djikstra equational programs / backhouse
Integrals

Pattern matching in the parser.

Triejoin datalog. De bruijn levels = trie levels

Parsers as pattern matchers. Intentional reduce reduce conflicts
The semantic actions..
Repeated parse print loop
Sorted arrays as tries
Call cleanup + bag of to eagerly eval
Asserta set_of retract member call(G). Odd control flow. No. This disconnects current evars
Delim is kind of just a way to compositionally store state. Ok fine. So sue me. Could go dcg.
Would C lift the loops of send more money?
Decompilation as proof search
Generic join
Parsers as macros
Parse and edit ropes
Countermodel reduction. Fuzz mitate
Deforest the term.
Resolution theorem prover on sqlite. Use flat trees as data structures.
Unifiable as a database query?
Differential datalog on top of sql
My select rule is bad. Need to copy p term

Ur resolution
Hyper resolution
Set of support
Ato without terms, unit, ground. Simplify until i can sql it. Groupby for clauses? Hash aggregates? Can I join groups?

Poselem negelem relation, join on. Make new set. Even fully ground is awkward. Clause deduplication

You know, maybe I ought to try a graph database.
Restrict to ground assumptions forst, the with universals, then rules
Where does coinductive lp store its trail?

Mba. Mfa howaboutdat
Get rid of weights, get drumset. Nice.
Valid + cost encoding for optimization

The trie of a path set is isomorphic to the term. Using the ported graph to bipartite graph encoding

Ok to get babes (and live a contented life or whatever) I have to be cknvinced my work is important. Hiw do ai do that? Perhaps there is a way to view draper as being meaningful

What could be “notes 2”? More ways of making “concrete” progress

Path strings are a lighter but still useful notion of context. More sharing possibly.

Identify context sites. Most rules are simple context transference. User programmable notion of context. But somehow we still help you
There is a specturm of zipper context to path context to user def context.

Itp for assembly programs
Multiple strings into suffix array by just adding a separator
Egraph as a maybe equal index

Box form of context

Prover9 is a datalog. Sos alone ought to work on edge path query

Given clause vs seminaive. Database as set of rows rather than n tables

Cinstructing and fixing a term order on the fly, not a rewrite system persay. Uh whats the diff?
Currying would be easy to implement. Just allow nulls.
Lambda lift the contexts

Group by for automata minimization
Atp for the rust trait system
Superposition is perhaps the prolog + rewriting nico wanted? Or maybe FLP.
Superposition in prolog. We need rewriting on non ground. Use the term ordering idea.

Set of support using prolog goal gives you prolog. It is tabled?
Magic set and set of support? Set of support can be either goal driven or bottom up ground fact driven
Harrop becomes lambda prolog.

Ground term ordeings. A term a a string or set of strings
Partial term orders. Even ground. Feature vectors
 Annotatable assembly
Inline C like that one objdump version. But precise
Parse objdump.
What if I had it right the whole time
Dwarf symbols right into an assembly file
Reified objdump. I might want the actual bits of the assembly also

Hand compilation. Dwarf annotate expressios
Dead code elimination. An expression may need to go nowhere.
Unrill for loops. If we carry a termination argument, can we use that in analysis?
Parse backwards. elihw
Just code gen the asp string
Reduce reduce unfactor?

Cachegrind
Cppcheck
Offsetof and stddef
March=native
Og optimization

Strucutred identifiers as a notion of scope
Infer and reduce? Restrict to ground

Typeclass inference is a good example of not exactly theorem proving

A or B in datalog
If I use A, B goes in hypotheticals of result

Destination passing style vs dybvig thing.
In turn it is more like logic program

Enumerating over a type is a reasonable view
Relational ac matching. Can go bottom up which is cool.
Egglite with
Plus could be inlined

Relational unification. The scope of the uvars is hard. That _is_ egglog. Uvars are a resource though

Pcode virtual table sqlite

Was ac matching in this style obvious? Group by

Menory safety - forall allocators, regardless of stratgey, any leaking of details of allocator
Verified exploits

Non destructive view. Make a view that calls select root. This won’t find congruence closure though. Could make explicit groupby domain union aggregate
Explicit

The tag schema of souffle isn’t crazy. It is an index to what table to find an id in. Or to disambiguate seperate table counters

Triggers for auto timestamping

Could bisimulation be useful as an abstract notion of state?
It only works if you never need to use the sub. You still need flattening rules

Triggers for multihead rules

Default constraints

Applications. Theorem proving. Making things faster. More secure.

Let kind of works. Can I use monadic or algebraic effect let? No, that let idea was cheating

Relational automata minimization
Default foreign unique function

Harrop clauses in atp?
Graph rewriting for physics simulation
Do really brute force ground atp solver

A continuation in prolog is a proof tree with hole? Continuations are associated with pierces law. That might be interesting. Can I use continuations to implement negation?

Relational term matching. A forest and all subterms gives nondeterminism

Ac matching can’t do splitting. (X + Y) (?) (x + y) means exactly two elements in multiset. Maybe you could. What do you even want this for?

Call normal form
Call(T) :- T = head, body

Signal(foo(x,y,z)

Janet, shen
Zig nim

Benign memory safety
Abi and frame conditions. Facebook infer
Ebpf as abi

Gappa egglog, examples, bitvec, maude, catlab, hlint, integrals, sums, relational algebra, kleene algebra, datalog geometry

Relational ac matching
Shift vs div for equational search
Prolog has functional syntax in ciao
Prolog has alg effects.

Hoas in egglog. All(foo) as an assertion of universal fact. Varuables in rules are well scoped. Borrow that

Pyres in prolog

Query optimization
Binary blobs woth relocations as string interpolation

Dwarf should be required to reflect bisimulation where is has to
Anything extra has a verification condition
Title: What could dwarf mean?: shadows of bisimulation
Conjectures includes things no reaosnable compiler impleemt ation could do, not stricly what spec reuqires
Spec required and accidental should be noted
Lambda prolog prototype of rust traits. “Just give up”
Program alignment via trace comparison
Angr program alignment?
Verifying in angr

Cozo db datalog with vector processing
Shader based microbusiness. Toss on game

Lpo and defunition unfolding. Obviously terminates. Obviously not size decreasing. Quite the ipposite
Constructor systems
Definition sustems

Look around at jobs
Get nice pics taken of me
Paint
Coasters

Egglog is to functional logic programming as datalog is to prolog. Tabled flp?

Superposition is to resolution as egglog is to datalog
Lambda flp? A good place for nikos stuff?
Dedukti + search / non confluence
Superposition prover

Minikanren style flp language? Embedded term rewriting

Variables in positions. We could do demand style fb transforms. We can enumerate the patterns. Sure. And then if you want var connections to cross functions symbols, you’ll have to define that. Can’t leave or enter it though.
First class linear patterns. That’s weird.

Shallow triejoin dsl. Fix creates new scope. Structured identifiers

Graph search as a fuzzing futamura projection. Graph -> cod ( vert -> bool). Graph -> vert -> code (path -> bool)

Sat modulo rewriting. Totally insane. Arbitrary subsets of the rules being ok is wild and unlikely.
Sat modulo completion. More sane. Sat mod uninterp func is sat mod ground completion

System F type checker. With explicit type binders
Curry offers clp? That might be nice for a constraint based compiler.

The relational encoding of functions is one fusion step of the transition relation encoding
Could DcG be used to do flattening style prolog rewriting? It returns a stream of results. One extra implicit param.
Foo(a, b) —> a, b,
Parsing and egraph… ground terms are strings…
Delimitted continuations and flp.
If I’m just writing a typechecker, just carrying gamma is fine. Why bother getting so weird with it
X and Y have to be incomparable.
Ground subsitutions vs instantiations for considering subtitution ordering. Are there more? Antagonisitc groundings.
What is the intuition behind the terminayion of stlc?
All partiality is bad
C(x) > x is always admissible

Equality saturation as superposition. Ok so we have the ground system as the
Use logtk as an egraph…? Ought to not be so hard?
Python bindings to eprover clib

Switch
Severance
Last of us

Lean or coq search using llm

Angr loader really is a loader. Just needs mmap

Unification modulo egraphs
Ordered rewriting

War. No holds barred going after something.

A better job that I can believe in. But it will be harder in some ways?

Get a shrink. The perfect shrink

Bouldering huh
Bjj huh
Bikes huh

Type checker in eprover? Lop format might be nice
Inverse method is forward reasoning

Robot + marker for wall art. Use laser cutter as plotter? Draw mountains, generative art. Colors

Hmm I am healing at work.
Skiing
Dress shoes
Celiac panel

Dynamic logic - prlog prover? That sounds kind of fun.
Z3 dyn logic / KAT

Beliz
Tahiti
New Zealand
Morocco
Portugal
Spain
France

Creatine. Vitamins

Professional photos
Jews?

Term ordering in lean
Shoes
Nice shirt
Jog
Eat nice food? Whole foods?

Make music. Get that guitar software. Pedals? Youdsarian. Rocksmith

<-> in superposition is equality? I wonder.

Tableau is semantic search. “Branching” on variables (or rather subformula). It is a representation of the semantic model relation more so than syntactic nat deduct. Lazy semantic search as compared to eager truth tables.

Term ordering literals in clauses. Do I really need a substitution ordering? Nah. Only if i don’t want to resort on instantiating

Pyres on pip

Need problems
Calculus
Summation
Physics, quantum. Atp for physics. Annihilation creation alg?
Control systems
Geometrical theorems
Power series and approximation?
Named differentiation is fine…?
Program calculation. Backhouse. Dijkstra. Algebra of programming

Really need calculus. Avoiding it is possible

Inductionless induction - saturation = good. Consistency = provability

France in june? July?
Proof carrying in vampire
Refinement checking using prolog clp. Using atp? Can I make infix in atp?

Should I get a financial advisor?
Microbusiness. The greeting card / magic card thing. No database? Could that be possible? Just glue some apis. Really janky version

Get pldi tickets. That’s in july
Octave

Nand2lean mike gordon style. Make it parse original files?

Lambda egglog. Bhoa zhang egraph to start
Hybrid egraph. Variable free ground term replace with eid. Incremental usage of lambda features
Python cffi to libdwarf

Setup winter trip next year

Spec syntehsus using chatgpt

Pomodoro gtd get things done

Make ground rewriting and strings a separate blog post. De bruijn + regex might be enough? Very constrained patterns.
Ground closed equations
Maybe this is more like ematching lite

Is a term with fvar patterns still ground in some sense. Ground lite. Exact variants only?

Maps to snallest term in egraph. Extract: just run the rule set on term of interest.
Can term ordering be customized to domain specific?
If we rewrite under binders only in var free bits we’re ok. Free var tag.
A limit on completion may give incremental ematching
Back porch

Grougk user land exec ulexec

Termination metrics for ebpf. Ebpf + proof or invariants or termination artifacts
Core dumps have way more information? Extended core dumps by ryan
Ksplice
Backtrace.io dedup of traces
K symbolic execution. What does this mean? Relation to narrowing? Flp? Two rewrite rules apply
The purely equational decompiler
-O0 is easy to interpret
The verification condition for dwarf is there forall binary executions there exists
Asplos paper
Risc v decompiler datalog, macro assembler

Interactive cerification

Cesare popcorn linux
Darpa mudge
Concurrency kit
Ksplice
Witchcraft compiler collectikn
Arbiter angr verification
Man elf
Put epbf into pre loading point
Mayhem
Brendan gregg
Greg on capells

Paul, flip phone. Magsafe

Yoga

Compiler as a predicate. It should be checking the bisimulation. Take compcert bisim, transalte to prolog

Literally decompile into hla.

Instruction scheduling is actually pretty hard to think about.
Equivalence checking of hla and given assembly.
Conditional commutativity for dataflow constraints
Generating

Core_pattern
Userland exec
Packers
Tpm
Writing patches in lua
Proc_kcore
Core dump to chatgpt
Ryan and ben karell should meet
Elf infection
Viruses replicate themselves
Turn off ghidra rewrite riles
Pcode to z3
Yan didnmt think z3 from symexec was simple?
Locreate
I should ask chatgpt about hacker stuff

Self compairson to see if machien state besides args matters. Noninterference

Grasshopper for egraphs? Graph reachability sounds reasonable

Hat flair

Radix counting sort

Staged metaprogrammign, constraint generation, unison compiler, nate

Typed assembly, datalog disassembly
Shallow well typed assembler

a code -> a code as a mov?

Datalog disassembly using sqlite and pypcode

Supercompilation for code caves

Write compiler bp by friday
Write compiling woth constraints summary by next friday

Ocaml vs rust vs lean

Treat “destructive” rules differently in that they egfwct the term ordering or go somehwere else?

Formal methods for the informal engineer

Toss enough decomp into a verifier to find the bug
See decomp says removed
Would the patch fix the problem even at c level.
We probably could have done this…
Would we have discovered the problem in the first place? Or at least understand that it is a problem statically.
Methodology is more useful than tools. Small assists from tools maybe or tools to enforce methodology
What would I do if my life was on the line? Well I might just roll over and die
Lessons from hackathan: some patches are trivial with assembly
Killing code, swapping function
We would have written the wrong oatch. Confusion on buffer size

Edit C. User has to add label annotations

Avatar egglog?
Avatar datalog?
This is kind of like smt modulo datalog a la greenberg. Which in turn was stomped by

Blower turrets. Seal?
6rpm
Using bubble blow loops embedded
1/2 submerged
Antipodal bubble holes
Bubble popper
Two chambers
Suggestion of bubble mixture
“Programs”
Waterfal cycle, humidity
Clean with water vinegar

Lean ghidra/ ocaml ghidra
Cbat validate compiler editted code.
Is asp suitable or datalog for separation logic? Infer is some kind of fixed point calc but intertwined with sep logic

Each rhs is an eclass? The canonically minimal term of that eclass.

Then reversing the rules is all the enodes of that eclass
Kind of every singleton eclass is inlined (which makes sense)
Eother a subterm of a rhs has 1 nothing interesting to say (inlined) (? Cannot be directly rewritten because of invariant) 2 is a rhs 3 cannot be a lhs if canonized
Invariant ( no lhs is a subterm of another lhs)
Can a rhs be matched by a lhs? No. The rhs would be rewritten during canonicalization (compression). No term is a lhs and rhs.
We could allow self identiy rules, but the term ordering invariant being preserved guarantees we’re ok and won’t produce self identity
We have to stop rewrite rules that perform scope escape
Nominal / alpha matching for open terms in ground rewrite systems
We only need reduction ordering not substitution ordering
The processes because of the term ordering, we just are always reducing shit

There is a canonical form for this system. Eclasses have a minimal term in them

The outer symbol of the pattern needs to be produced by something.
The expansion system never rewrite the top symbol? That moght be right
A rhs can be a subterm of a lhs but during expansion
One enode is special. It is the canonical enode
Types bottom up ematching, parents table can also prune?

Eclass isnmt quite rhs because singleton subterms of lhs and rhs are also eclasses
Rhs is eclasses of size > 1.
Yea so mem is wrong because it should include all subterms too
Eclass iteratir
If we skolemized an atomic symbol for every enode, those would be the eclasses
Skolemized is an interesting perspective. What if these skolema took parameters (structured eids)
Union find as ground completion
Propositional/atomic rewrite systems. Not a rich notion of variable.
Alpha ground string

Random walk demo style

Ref cell/point vs arena. The garbage collector actually does have a universal view. Kind of humorous. We could peek into the garbage collector to do ematching or use an integrated garbage collector ematching system
If you throw hash consing on top you come back.

Term orders / rest in rust

Hmm analyses are kind of like kbo weight functions or other fingerprints.
I can only union closed terms at toplevel
The skolem skolem parts of the rewrite are the union find, enode skolem are eclass ownership
Polytopes as relations are both an inequality and plus relation
Projection as the interface
Buchberger + term rewriting

R1 and R2 one ground the other not. Ground derivations go in R1, non ground into R2. This is incremental ematching
Separate communicating rewrite rule systems? Opaque constants and the ability to unify on each other / normalize eqch other. Modular completion

Are the variables in buchberger constants or vars. We never substitue in them, so constants? And they are not locally alpha renamable
Linear equalitied = gaussian eliminination. Seems like that won’t explode
Nelson oppen communication. Egraph modulo theories. Do I need an ematching routine in the traditional sense to do egraph canoninzation
Record with casting
Row types are a frame condition

Named arguments? The keyword arguments do sort don’t they?
Writing a well typed interpreter is another semantics. Prog point has type o

What does logtk do if I compare open terms?
From logtk perspective, lambdas are incomparable. Lanbdas aren’t really “ground”
Apply or reduce as a built in

Term of position. Position context pairs. Context ids
Structured eids, ctx eid pairs

Lambda datalog. Use strings in db. Or integers. Implement primitives via logtk functions. That’s be cool.

Lean4 sqlite
What about switching to binsec lifters?

Ground Ordering mod E
Using scope extrusion for solves. Blocked extraction
Twelf datalog

Tal of just mov
Disassembler of just jumps
Ghidra semantics
Jmp foo

Tree order vs linear order of scopes. Scoped union find
You can always replace usage with a lower scope one
It does not fix the raising and lowering issues if we change the number of lambdas
But that is the saturation engines problem. We may have to extract to do this

We dont even have to fuck around with de bruijn indices in the term rep ya know
Maybe that maude mixed rep is smart?

Should I do burlesque? Maybe it freeing
Goblin hole

Nelson oppen and shostak include external theories like linarith. Ematching over linarith is its own bitch
Egg is smt-sat. Nelson oppen makes fine sense without sat. Ematching is the tougher bit
The notion of lhs and rhs is important. This is like that extended tableau version of gaussian elimination. Like a linear combination transition system / rewrite system. The states are linear inequalities or something. Or polytopes? Polytopic rewrite rules.
We want to be projected in an abitearily sized space. Using generators is probably key (frame rules)

If we are trying to replicated constant folding, AC as built in concepts. A conservative notion of theory is one you could have written as rules if you wanted to
Kind of the point of ematching is to stay on terms connected to the ones of interest (unless you don’t want to)
The theory of concrete evaluation doesn’t seem to worry me much. 1 + 2 = 3

Could also work with polytopes if they are enumerating allowed values?
Or are we collecting constraints during ematching clp style?

Can difference equality logic be implemented even more easily?

Multiset ordering is the obvious thing. Normalize mutlisets in order. Go lexicographically

Hashcons multisets for ac
Extraction and analyses. Kbo weights. Transfer functions = interpretation method?

Encoding multipatterns (similar to egglog0)
DB(set or multiset) -> true
Path(x,y) -> true

Each rewrite is under a given context, not a global context. Gam |- t -> Gam |- t1

“Coalgerbaic” term orders?

Make a unsafe call pointer function in ocaml. Wrap in symstemv calling convention

Deriving a term ordering for ground systems
Why are good weights good?
X + y + wf is kbo like interpretation
Puttting parameters on the vars makes things harder.
Booleans representing the term ordering
Generating the problem using asp
Generating using z3. Given REWRITE system, finding a consistant ordering is a problem. Given ground system, any total ordering works

Lattice values as a filter. They are feature vectors

Narrowing is ematching. Recursively call ematch. Is this a term we recognize? Base case. Otherwise must have been generated by rule, recursively call
Or I guess base case is regular structural matching?
We can give skolems a kbo weight to make them less diesra le

Scopes form a lattice, subsumption of scopes. Sometimes rewriting one way makes sense but doesn’t another
A scoped union find. Compression only occurs on one direction, union only points along the lattice annotation.
There is a deep notion of identity. The term/ the id.
The old concept was an on the fly lattice. Now a fixed a priori lattice
We could do the groupoid union find thing if the lattice becomes an egglog defined lattice. Ed kmett had a thing too?
Total ordering is a nice property. The tie breaker is regular uf behavior. Havig the lattice go from unknown to defined is aproblem

Current egraph has dynamic scope like old implementations of lisp
What do I need join or meet for? Is partial order good enough?
We do need tags on output?we can only canonize down the lattice.
The tags are at creation time.
Remnants of a term order.
Kbo size is cheap and simple. The tie breaking is annoying. Leave only the tie breaking to the uf
Oh we’re tie breaking equality not incomparable. Is that the trick? Total ordering not partial ordering.
The symbol ordering encoded as bool

In physics everything is equational. Nothing is proof by cases. This is not true. Assuming parameter epsilon is small is often a “proof by cases” we do case split at that point

Hiw would I treat olivers if then else problem
During canonization only do it if context subsumes the other. Ok, no prob. Or is it the join of contexts?

More defined subsumption. Requiring a list of at least 1 is more defined:less partial than requiring a env list of length 2
Eager extraction, eager union find

Subterms inherit tags in completion egraph, and single child are inlined

What is subterm relation for linear expressions. Subterm modulo rules. Positive coefficients only -> all coeff <= makes sense
Unfailing completion huh…

Bio informatics / computational biology
Gamedev
Chips?
Regular web infra shit
Databases

Delux
Myers change
Ivory pearl
Bee hive
Sarma
Blossom bar
Framingham gluten free chinese

Sets and multisets. Maybe it really is convieny to represent equalities this way
Destructive rewrites: clear e table  of a rule if it obeys junk condition. Always sounds. Kill all symbols. Kill anything z3 can prove or is “obvious”. Prune based on feature vector

Extraction is reduction, analyses are interpretation orderings, ematching is whatever

Bottom up ematching
Could compile variables to numbers and use an array of proper siE

Egraphs for string diagrams. Ground graph systems? No graphs are ground though
Closed graphs? Scoped graphs? Reducible graphs? Or like only one connection to outside
Ground terms supress C context var, strings supress two string vars. Its subtle

Abi checking. I wrote edx when I meant edi
Taint on uninitialized values
Comparative checking my version and gcc

Gruetter wants lia
Egraph to list of equations.
Bdds as rewrite systems. Normalizing ite expressions
Hmm actuaply we want to drive constants to 0. Reminds me of LP l1 norm. Knuth bendix order compatible simplifcayion of linear expressions
Normalizing theories don’t union… maybe they always loop?

Restriction of function to linear subspace of domain
No junk rules or that require scope. Non destructive normalization
Subterms not in egraph
Dowtributivity is the obvious example where you want the x + y pattern. But we could use x + …xs pattern
Distr as built in?
Ac(x)
Linear functions will pull up sums. That’s another good one. We will make a ton of unnecessary stuff.
Modular matching.  Matching modulo theories. E-matching. Ask solver to do matches. Remainder of matches. Sets of todo matches. Need natural notions of sets. Enumeration is not good
Linear matching is quasi combinatorial. Is there a point in this space where most coefficents are 0.
Linear expressions have the same thing as multiset patterns. Prim bindings vs union factoring bindings
Bottom up ematching works?
Skolem symbols are less than any real symbol. There exists a skilem symbol for every possible term

Decision transformers

10am yoga subday also wednesay
Inline c in assembler that’s interesting

Ai core dump interp
Dover books
Cracking the coding
The undecidable
I mean, the things I need to learn the most about the the things I don’t know to learn about
Progress, will a rewrite land in a place called “values”
Types are progrqm abalysis for term rewriting
Automated theorem prover for metatheory?
Take first order type theory.
Model checking type theories and the counterexamples in type theory
Prolog refinement types
Plt got
Nostdlib

Lean ghidra semantics
Binar format repo

Inductionless induction. Rules that touch the ordering?
Inversion - given all the heads of rules, what is most general that only unifies to one of them.
Preservation is an invariant check.
Normalization seems like a termination thing?
What about let instead of lambda in legglog. Explicit sharing. What about using let to express eid. Let floats somehow out of the system?

Planting acorns:
Serious type theory
Category theory
Numerics
Gpu
Machine learning
Isabelle sel4
Electronics
Cryptography
Bioinformatics
Wood
Bjj

Linearly typed tal?
Inline C
I feel that stlc represent simple semantic objects (of a type!) Why would those objects involve non termination?
definefunrec eval*
Spacer

Assembly with holes and superoptimize
Computation rules. Add rewrites to make sure we only end in values.
Category in vampire
Modular static analysis for term rewriting

Podcast editting via ai / speech to text
Make the esbmc thing a tweet
Ackermannization a tweet

Normalization by evaluation?
Why is bottom up easy when lambda matching is hard. Somehow the restriction to known eclasses helps?
Reify reflect…?

Read email
Make demo. Get cbat working.

Could toss into sqlite and have it to the joins
Not worth it

Skolemization
Monotonic function interpretatiosn
Nbe using finite maps. Use bdd?
Prove there is only one function from unit
There aren’t “theories” only ocaml and the egraph
A hash table with sorted list leaves is canonical. Insertion sort. So tries isnt the only methdo
Extensible data type of new semantic objects? And extensible reify reflect
Term and neutral term and value
A functional programming language + ground equalities for stuck terms. Like rewrite extension to agda but not universal rewrites.
I did attempt nbe in egglog. Is that of any relevance?

Geometry diagrams out of egglog
Or clingo

Write an aexpr interpreter in x86

Symbolic execute term rewriting

Programmable sanitization. Akin to policy language
Polymorphic matrix rewriting

Cubical agda congruence implementation in agda?

Dapeng gap cambridge. Arm has a cherri architecture thing.

Cyclic proofs. Does a term ordering let us do that in the grs egraph?
Ruler

Depth bounded. Iterative depth bounded

Aegrapgs

Is eager rewriting + turn off rebuilding similar to aegraph: elis suggestion

Binding in egraphs. Destrucitve rewrite + free variable analysis.

Ilp extraction

A funny little trick: let bindings for sharing in egraphs

Asp ackermannization for the spacer extraction problem

Extract for ac like beta
Defunctionalize but with rule optimization?

Keep named and de bruijn.

Put the theories in the constructors?

Subsumption as a I am king

Ssi
Pdos
Llvm poison sure.
Frawk
Onecell++
Bumpalo
Cranelift
Isle
Sunfishdan
Emptyheaded, dynamic variable ordering

Mosaic
Sparse matrix multiply. Cblas mkl taco
Mosaic compiler
Stardust tblis
It can use a bunch of disparate tensor systems

Cryptopt
Parameter specific c
Random local search
Hmm. This is like peephole search?

Regehr is making a superiptimizet using sail

Sythesizing milp
Translating frim smt to milp via sygus

Elevate thomas rule rewirting strategies

Lapping plates curvature 3 plates can then do cubes / right angles
Carpentry paper
Linear programs with large number of constraints billions

Eid(n)
{eclass(,)} :- eid(N).
:- not eid(root)

Undefined behavior sabitizers and optimizers. Sanizie at different optimization levels

Zdd of the well founded selections
Thinas kahler said dijstra of decision paths (?)
This is also what eli described
What if our lambdas were typed. Then they are literally sets.
Normalization by evaluation into bdds

Debali into hla style trees high level assembly is this superior? Weird extraction problem maybe to re linearize

Indexed stream
Scallop

Typeof relation + an algebra of finite sets

Scallop for extraction : examples of good extractions
Scallop for asp selection. Does asp have provenance? Anti provenance. Rules or tuples that would have derived it.
Scallop for end to end read formula and give equivalent version?

Instcpmbine as peephole optimizations

Souper ir
Go ir for peephole

Optitrust
Jsutified c transformations
Ocaml dsl

<http://files.inria.fr/optitrust/>

Run herbie in vscode some tool
Grammatech mnemosyne

Odysseey is new herbie interactive

Filament timeline types. A parameter for time
Aerherling. Calyx. Reticle
Clash bluespec
Dahlia
Diospyros

Parallel Fucntional programming with effects
Mpl
Go did surprisingly well
Entanglement allowed by pinning

Lambda set specialization
Morphic-lang.org

Asp for egglog rule synthesis

2011 jean xaiver student canonicalizing egraph?
Jean bapstiste justine

Copy_term. Aegraph does help because there is a (better) notion of child egraph
Moebous inversion

Isca famous arhcitects?
Vlsi

Hyperscan
Umbra

Asp for heap analysis. Generating or verifying separation logic? Model checking maybe?

Lroving program equivalencr

Grounding asp requires context of the assumed negations. We can’t be destructive. Use terminating variant  if egglog (either pure congruence closure or non producing)
Scasp for flp?

Eggkanren

Stream complexity class
Reconfigruable networks
Separation logic leancop solver?

Expanders
Ramsey
Ryan odonnell. Theory of computation
Princeton companion to math
Higher fourier
Arithmetic prgoression

Extensible inductive datatypes

Defunctionalizatipn
Gadts defunctionalize for system f

Region types - subtle typing is wrong. Regions are like passing in arenas, but you connect a parameter in the arena
Refinement types rust flux - strong reference type

Coinductive definitions
 -> bisimulairty collapse
Stream programs.

Fo+lfp. Pick only the trees out of a graph. Avoid loops, avoid sharing. What is least about recursive typed

Hd(Addstream(a,b)) = a + b
Tl(addstream(a,b)) = addstream(b,a)

It should learn addstream(a,b) = addstream(b,a) from commutaitovty

Can I do this in mcrl2?

Why? So that we can model

Double copy. Semantic and syntactic version

Jeopardy rveersiblr language. Sparcle

Auto diff. Gilbert x*x is silly when shared. Ok should use squared kernel. But we may need to move things around.
Better than interval analysis which could happen in egraph itself. Well, it is kind of nice to compile a shared version if you wanted runtime intervals to be better

Cubical agda tutorial
Ground coinductive definitions. Not rewrite rules…?

Ruler: enumerate rules, verify in z3, compress as you go in egraph to avoid asking again. Use egraph to orthogonalize

Theories _just_ for finding equalities between terms. Teleport to normal form. Maybe have stock reification maybe not

Verifying a pid controller

A branching egglog solver could be cool.

Progress and oreservation in the egraph
TERM datatype. What am I even complaining about. I can do my thing if I want

High level assembly as projectors. Annotate woth addresses

Write down things to be grateful for

Refinement types are subtyping

Hashcons
Normalizing hash cons
Aegraph

Greedy extraction. Do tree cost, take “best” recompute cost
Polynomial factoring
Don’t care refinement
Multi level synthesis

Persistent union find for search

Ref cell fixed point for datalog? Timestamps in the trie?

Aegraph inside of egglog
Use term ordering instead of newest in aegraph. But then we can’t use union nodes?
Hash cons mod alpha but with union nodes?
Insert everything in egraph using term ordering rather than subterm. If we need to insert a forest
Make the ordering of the union find match the ordering
Tag union node with proof
Acyclic means lambda is better posed?
Iterative deepening of aegraph construction.
Bottom up ematching plays nice with theories
Bottom up matching machine
While we are constructing terms we know what context we’re in C
A toplogical order of the term dag/ hashcons before constructing the egraph

All. Function symbols lifted to set functions. Then union is literally union. Could flatten and sort.
Hoogle is a prolog program? Subsumptive Term search

Suntehsis. That’s one to attack

Normalixation by evaluation by literally i terpreti g into geometrical objects

F(gggggggx) = ggggggx

B
A :- b
Vs
:- b, not a

Asp for memory models?
Rewriting under memory models. Happens before in every execution

Synthesizing bidirectional annotations using asp.

Do the asp generating compiler in rust

Normalization by avaluayion of refinement types

Do compiler combinators in rust using asp bidnings

Single use nodes can be identified as only having one edge coming out. Yes. At least in terms of ownership. The sum of all nodes that have single owner is less than optimal tree cost for all subdags. Or can I divide by usage?

Don’t extract anything not reachable from root
Do not extract dominated leaves

Oscillators

Bed computer ceiling projector
Modern manga

Teach a course. Types. Automated reasoning

Gideon the 9th
Smtlib 3 preprocess in rust

Scallop for code. Hmm. To recognize vulns or function starte or somethin

Sheets
Chew comic

Post docs
Msr
Amazon

Datalog disassembly in scallop
Dynamic programming N optimality. Go deeper that 1 level. Or look for shared common leaves even

Diversification uc irvine
Aegraph in asp?

Asp for refinement typing

Yang- low precision floats
Ciel and pliner
Programs generated by verity. Incosistency detection compiler induced

Titanic fpcore evaluatir
Use egraph as autodiff graph?

Dag dominator. You can charge a node all the subnodes it dominates
Dominators in egraph? (With respect to root) kind of like the automata simplifcation idea
Dogfood extraction. Make equational form of egraph itself,

Maximal matching of macroassembly. Avoid some annotations

Running the analysi over the dominator tree
Manually stage treecost

Running portfolio mode has to be dominant by construction. Some are useful as subroutines. Dominators are possibly useful.  Dominated nodes area a subset of descendents for which you have ownership of and can be charged for

Use bottom up
Stage the treecost

If you hash cons and then traverse in subterm order (?)

Give it the tree solution explicitly. It can turn on and off sub parts (entirety?) of that solution. Then at least it is immediately solvable.
Strong negation picking?

Egraphs sit between syntax and semantics. An approximation. Maybe I had the right idea with grs

Jobs
Nvidia
Groq
Rel

Superiptimization for patch space
Egraph based decompiler

Asp large neighborhood search
Sympy egglog
Calcium egglog
Direct catlab to egglog python
N log n union find in asp

Picat ciao curry
Angr to clingo
Picat compiler?
Asp memory model
Bioinformatics
Eda circuit tools
Dummy books

History
Politics
Finance
Exonomics

Equational reasoning over matrix decompositions

Marshall was kind of open world reasoning. Is there an analog of closed world reasoning? For exact reals.

Lark  + clingo +

High vocal bandwidth people communicate better
Skibidi toilet literary criticism chatgpt

Twitter purge
Verse
Wrestling
Drop shipping. Make design
Goo deodorant
Passive income.

Game jam
Godot vr
Doctor
Horse engine pciture midjourney

Microcinema

Low rank matrices and union find. Hierarchy of equalities?

Physics engine formal verif?
Aegraph in tabled prolog? Use subsumption
Rust style logic programming. Uniqueness on logic vars…mercury?

Dynamic termination checking by watching the call graph. That’s fun. Well quasi order detection. Heap eventually has to take sich and such a shape. Graph minors as edge collapse. Planar graphs as having minors. Graph contrqction as asp?
Microsat
Well quasi order
Sat solver in lean.
Dafny in lean. Dafny proof lang.
Bidirectional typing inference
P vs np. Some weak linear algebra version involving permanents
Bob harper had a theory of heaps and stacks?

Graph theory (spectral?)
Density functional theory
Heap predicates ought to be encodable in z3 using adts? Isomorphism from heap graph to its functional object. Likewise for dags
Is an egraph “from trees” how to tell?
Iso recursion in egraph?

The aegraph is demand driven. More amenable to a tabling approach
Asp minors
Asp kruskal/ asp termination

Asp for functors? Homomorphisms
Logic minimization
Aig. aBC is used for hwmcc. Maybe egglog + bitvector rewrite coupd be good
k-brute extraction. Multiset of choices for eaiser backtrack
Dancing links useful somehow?
There ought to be a notion of semi naive for trie join

All extract problem. Turn egraph into pile of equations
Python itp egglog
Isel and egraph extraction
Aig to egglog
Grobner?
Bespoke equivalence checker. Go inside the sat solver
Specialize verilog to a program. Hmm that might be cool for nand2tetris
Egglog as partial evaluation engine? Binding time analysis is probably a datalog analysis?
Relational division in asp?
Lamda-asp.
Asp as proof search. What goes in the atoms? What goes in the justification? Is the set of all judgements huge? Demand as choice.
2^mn vs 2^ln m n = m^n
Lattice value via binary encoding + justification to pick min. Powerset lattice is clearest
Arguments as asp python function
Output metaocaml from sail
Partial eval sail. Usr sail for factorial
Sat sweeping inside egglog? Need extract primitive.
Ocaml fraiging. Aegraph? Word level don’t bit blast
Bitvector induction. How do I show for arbitrary n?
Abductivr equiv checking. On what subset of inputs are they equal. Precompose corcuits with injection
Tree automatalog? If yihong is right, then tree automata completion is directed rewriting
Asp modulo convex
What is <= semantically? A relation between expressions? Expressions have semantics of being env -> int. To say functions are “less than equal” seems non sensensical.
Neon glasses

Order of operations of structured asm is undefined, like C. This is allows freedom of scheduling
Using sail as an assemblet. Sail superipimtizer
Supercollider
Vr website takes image/infer 3d lets you walk around

Asp solver ocaml for equality
Theory rewrite node in version space algebra. Theory knows what terms another term is equiv to. Or implicitly thepty term represents who set of theory equiv terms. Makes sense
Let lifting and let lowering for ifthenelse.
Asp + calcium
Hashlog -> normlog. Bottom up hashlog
Clingoutil
Asp metainterp
Schematic variables?
Pi
Generate fresh name by capture site
Name variable for applications site? Then we can destructivly update… hmm
Datalog subsumption via blockage. State registering current best.
Make anything subsumptive a python function externally driven? Dom(x,y) can be a normal predica
Eq predoctae and root external function in asp
Bottom matching for normlog
Normalized constructors but unnotmalize patterns (like AC)
Until we have backreaction on linear terms, its not different than multiset
Everyhting old is new. Redo miniherbie.
Prot

Combining calcium analyses. Gappa.
Copy past gappa rules?

Subterm relation. Generic congruence closure.
Geometry proving in asp. Sort. Hmm is there a way to use combinatory search? That could be really f
Grounding is provenance. Can I access that from?
Termination gas is a light reification of stack.
Houdini and asp. Invariant synthesis. Support is base case. Cycle is invariant check. We can spray possible
invariants
CoLP metainterpeter
Non confluent but quasi terminating (finite loops like assoc and comm ok)
Non total ground ordering. Only a finite number of terms are incomparable to each other. (Tie break with union find)
Rw and simp relation. Simp is subsumptive
Use ciao
Confluent but trrminating /finite. Diamonds
Prolog extraction
Free energy
Invite cody
Show tree form of ast for mathbitch but side print lat
Chatgpt * whisper to input formula?
Diagram drawing in iavascript geoemtry
Multitouch gestures
Bit blasting and matrix expansion

Comparative chc solver
Comparative smt reducer
Datatype in asp. Two different constructors can’t be equal

Sum of products is direct translation for asp
Hash consing does good child sharing
Congruence causes a need for parent sharing
Take mit course? Math? Why not? No one can stop me.
Julia for egraph compiler. Hmm.
Quasi quoting llvm passes
Symcc cooperative corutining
Asp competition example problems
Make logic programming course?
Mathbitch that checks and make documents
Vibes as llvm pass?
Vector db as nearest neighbor model. Vector db in a datalog?

Sciml. Ode with neural piece
Symbolicreregression.jl
Pharmocometrics
StochasticA
Moment order reduction
Model order reduction jl
Doggo dot jl
Digital twins-good marketting bullshit
Asml

Catgeorydata
Suntepresentation
Qwignersymbols
Mpskit matrix prducy state
Tullio.jl

Hmm could julia be good for scallop alternative
Strided array
Itensor
Ndtensor
Oneisnuncontractionorder
Optimal contraction
Graphsjl
Tensor network solvers
Triqs impurity solvers
Tensor networks for navier stokes?
High dim integratio

Modelica openmodelica.jl
Simscape

Tropicalgemm.jl
Tensorinference.jl

Combinatorics.jl
Cumulant expansion

Ruler and fraiging are kind of similar

Julia-Veri

Scallop datalog via overloading?
Scallop via comprehensions?
Julia datalog vs tensor blog post
Julia discord summary
Apply to verse team
Julia paramdoulation
Gpt4 judging everything i say
Taste sensor. Tech help for cooking. Flavor theory?
Physical rendering
Music theory
Target network
Functional analysis. Proofs for machine learning people
Get parking pa
Hoare logic prolog. Sep logic prolog. Abduction? Software foundations examples?
Inductive forall in prolog

Make env decision var
Just map bril right in
Compilation as bisimulation
Isel is picking obervations

Subsumptivr proving in tabling with “best depth”, then dcg pass following shorten breadcrumbs
Termination and tabling
Tabling and memoization for dfs in graph using functional programming
Kbo in prolog. How to sort in prolog. Comparing terms ought to be frozen if incomparable (until ground
Maybe flp isn’t superposition prolog
Tube space. Don’t have fixed grid. Shrink grid on each iteration
Auto differentiating aegraphs. Hmm. Not sure how to make this cogent
Capd ode validated
Asp for interval propagation.
Subsumption as a cleanup mechanism for completion. Goal delay
Dynamic predicate for completion?
Running term rewrite system, easy?
Javascript feynman diagrams?
Delta equality (up to epsilon) using equality injection technique
Sin(del) vs inj(sin(del))
Plus(o(del), sin(del)) injection function is “called” plus but it’s an asymmetric plus
Evaluation is function refinement to point
Take the “d” operator seriously. Now integration and differentiation aren’t binding ops.
Coordinate free = no bindings?
Abstract manifold as M abstract type. Not immiediatley as Rm
Spivak
D E
Stochastic calculus
Matroids
Back porch
Music theory. Timbre
Discord discourse stackexhange
Pippard vibratiosn
Xgboost boosted trees
Prolog bound vars macro. Prolog sorting and term orders.
Rvsdgs and the algebra of programming
Interactive sympy
Algebra of programming
Sustem f monmorphizr
Sqlite datalog javascript
Interactive proving in prolog? Assert to lemma databasr. Acl2 style, reason about pure prolog programs
Decimpling float programs and herbize

Delta equality. It has a subsumptive character. Triangle inequality built in?

Tabling for deductive datalog geometr
?
Asymptotic analysis
Semdiff of smtlib exprs
Extract closest
Many dyadic rationals can be represented exactly in floats
Box type for stdlib
Egglog features: scoped ruleset
Brute solver
Dist(x,y) is a very natural formulation.
Scalar multiplication and the group union find
SAdd n One
Unfolding a knot in E
Prolog for category theory prover?
Split rule. 0,1 goes to 0
Dropbox
Bender orszag
Decompile from aig
Herbie is kind of a high level isel problem
Hoare incorrectness outcome logic in prolog
The state of prolog program is subst mapping. Minikanren. Abstract interp gives magic set. Hoare is possible. Separattion logic? Mode check term check type check. Gupu. Cti.
Convex pdes
Online termination checking
Nontermination checking
Aprove
Stop when youmre almost full
Bussproofs as input language?
Disequality
Separation logic and partition refinment are kind of nice.
Sep logic prolog
Partial eval isla
Isla to verilog?
Graph canonzier
Egglog etudes
Hashconsing an egraph
Charts are conditional equality
Egraphs for graphs
Boxed ints as default. Eh why shake the boat
Function objects
Pyeval pycall
Value primitive sort
Cast
Exact search
Dynamic link as sort. Need to write interning shims. Boo hoo.
Expr sort
Semiring datalog in python?
Pytorch egglog
Scryer egglog. Either direction
Multiple returns. In what sense is this not foreign relations? Doesn’t schedule or mode pick for you
Foreign lambda
termdag sort
History independent data structures
The law of robotics if i have to do declans wedding
Sunglasses
Souffle parity
Sqlite import
Coasters
Chrome app to help me save links?
Coding on the go? Gothub mobile
Indeed
I equality disequality
Lambdas
Dictate lectures or notes?
Spotify for podcasters
Sqrt 2 in egglog
Hot salt frying
Khan academy
Bird watching
Anki words / crosswords
Rubiks cube
Juggling
Music theory
Solve word games using embeddings
Puzzles
Renaissancehistory
Econ
Semdiff - trace back differences
Yogo, but only with simplifyinng/guarded rules. Egglog macro to only terminating rules? (Only
Go through prolog books, collect up juicy stuff
Semiring semantics clingo?
Weakest precondition and moding
Houdini and subformula proerty
Being “named” is actually well stratified since you only get named at strata 0
Forall is like sum or product. Is there a proof by reduction to a telescope? Maybe this is invariant discovery?
Strong or weaker inductive invariants. Bounds on derivatives?
Shadow calculus for finding invariants,
Compactness and reals?
Linear logic
Outcome logic over sets
Biabudction
Clp(euf)
Clp(array)
 Clp fd for linear logic. Finite maps to
Marshal as a logic programming lang instead of functional. Python exact reals
Clp euf for nico?
Prolog let/exists. Does escape matter?
Nbe egglog
A closure is a “context tag”. Closures that have unnecessary stuff in args should downcast? Be subsumed. Uneccesary/minimal capture
Closures are an expicit syntax for lambda terms. Minimal closures are canonical (?). Multi arity as feature instead of capturing. env + var is enough multarity. Closing is good and enables transfer around, which is what egraph needs
A closure is equal to something with its env values substituted in. The env choice is arbitrary and could even be empty. Hmm maybe this is what reify is for
Datalog pigeon hole
Infinite herbrand models and compactness
Hash consing closures
Closures make substitution lazy
Extraction not to normalize closures
Rosette

Geometry
Computer vision
Algorithms
Quantum
Ai/ml? I dunno.
Generic web stuff/backend. Databases are cool
Get an indeed
Leetcode
Shoe tie dye. Sock tie dye.
Knitting
Peano arthmetic solver. What is godels incompeteness
Term in chr egraph.
Do something nice for whistler
Best in show
Peano prover. What are different ways of modelling peano in coq?
Schur complement python
Call graphs
Graph isomorphism for egglog
Productive extraction
Mutually recursive extraction. Extracting definitional equations.
Closures are coinductive
Dynamic programming and well foundedness. Shortest path is
Graphlog. Datalog itself is very graph like… seems cool for reflection. Sets or maps as graphs
Hypersets as clark completion models?
Modal and equational logic are dual. Automatalog should have modal operators?
First class sets in clingo
First class graphs in clingo via caleb dihash
A sequence of datavases can be encoded using the set inclusionary trick
Dafny angr
Email zach about hott
Herediatoarily finite sets as hash cons universe. Hmm. If i wrote this, it could be a datalog backing store
Mit library card
Sets solve AC?
Write a set function. Set = sort. Compact lists
Read atoms as sets (like semiring semantics) read :- as setelem
Provenance is now in the model explicitly
Piano key dentures
Chordal semidefinite
Hypersets for automata
Mso z3
Chr for string diagrams. Auto. Clear. Rule specific.
Foreign modes. If we have multi returning (?)  well we might via vec. Pretty doofy though itd be nice for it to auto pick mode for us. Don’t care is a useful mode. Huh.
Returning tuples. Use vec. Wasteful. Cache result in the sort? Hmm.
Operations to make new automata from old. New terms is easy
Haskell yorgey
Haskell lazy trie join
Gym on tuesday early
Angr wp
Purely functional graphs + xor style hashes + nauty for collisions
Bogo graph canon. Try every permutation or labels. Sort every adjacency list. Take minimal one.
Hmm but even a lookup requires one equality check…
Hash consing automata. Minimize.
Incremental equality checking, incremental minimization
Canonical automata labelling?
Why label with a number? You could label with a nonwellfounded set? But then how to identify those. States are identified with their set of observations, which may include other sets
Undecidability is relative?
Encode junk condition for catveory equations
Purely functional Datalog in coq/lean.
Probability chernoff markov. Lp is useful for positivity and sum constraints. Exponential gen function
Canonical ordering using a minimization criteria? Sorted as a criteria.
Fuzzy graph matching. Lp?
Buy shirt
Amanda to wedding
Labelling is checkable?
Generate feynman diagrams. That is fun. Isomorphism collects terms. Subgraph also.
Cycle finding and occurs check
Rosetta code interesting?
Code base spelunking. Use build system to make more readable.
Leetcode on walks
Criterion to n code blocks?
Symmettry group union find. Automorphisms are a group. Graph equality
Audit mit course
Project euler
Tyler economics
Prometheus vcf
Purely functional set of vertices (subset of larger graph). Edges are implied.
Khipi
Hard line precise painting paint tape stencils crosshatch t square
newspaper print
Wire art
Uniqlo
Colors and observations
6-9
Body worlds
Veep
Boolean equation systems and boolean unification
Set constraint solvers. Set constraint problem using recursive elem is cool. A in b, b in c, give well founded only.
Hereditary finite sets in asp
Model checking in sql. Fol is “easy”
Chatgpt for remoding
Dafny laff
Graphs instead of trees in egglog
Group tagging works fine. Not worth the extended mechanism really
Toplogy questions as graphs? Homotopies?
Graph rep of lambda. Uniquofy free vars. Or have edges between identical ones
Hash consing unordered children dags. Thats what my ac blogpost did
Graphlog. Underlying data store is graph. Graph patterns. Tableau proving? String doagrams?
It is difficult to recover sets from ordered terms
Homotopylog. Search for homotopy is mechanism
Hereditary finite sets. Wf(empty).
Eigenvalues of isomorphic graphs are the same
Is graph unification meaningful? Nominal unification is automorphism. Graph equation solving.
Prolog + angr python
Hsf(c) morales
Prolog
Foreign assertions into an automata? Modal stayements? The greatest automata that obeys (simulatable into)
The axiom of specification. You… model check it?
Permutation symmettry of queries. Permutations of results. Dedup. Symmettries in conjunctive wueries
Definitions vs constraints
Recursion theorem
Extension by definition
Sets of rationals as atuomatons.
Axiom schema in vampire
Dreamerv3
Decision transformers
We don’t need canon. Probably we’re putting exactly the same graph back in. Use fast cheap hash + carry labelling + fallback to nauty if hash collision where labelling doesn’t witness. Return canonical labelling.
Hash consed construction lists, roll back to common ground
Lambda free. F id
Functor cat > cat. A record?
Category(F)
Step by step proofs using and?
Apply() for axiom schema
Strictness annotations vs modes?
Refinement typing via atp
Universes in atp
Big step abstract interpreters and call graphs. Detecting fixpoints
Horpo
Simplicial homeomorphisms. Use graph iso? Quotient graph?
Dwarf debug is optional observable effects. Make imp compiler. Make optimizations. Make optional effects

Calcite
Valox
Arrow

Lean mini egglog two brids one stone
Topological minimization

Define some constructors as contextual. They are frame markers
Open function tubes

RAman spectroscipy gravity
Stars
Two level systems?
Topolog is a good name
Logic ofpartial funcs
Developing weak theories checking equiv via the solver
Automatic axiom weakening/ simplification. But prob solvers already do this?

Guess useful lemmas. Langchain hooked up to vampire
Knuckledragger. Have.
Isabelle style system in prolog
Difference list style poitners to top of tree
Python verifier viper or
Cotermination

Collect and swap global frame. Don’t rename.  Use c++ namespace?
A metaegraphs. Step out of the universe where you can and can’t see terms
Interning automata. Minimize then graph intern.
Memoize graph construction
Egraph rewriting is destructive graph rewriting. We destroy the old enode
Indirection nodes for “forcing”. Destrcutive rewrite
Add eclass to stg
Heterogenous trie in haskell. Yea. I guess. Someones done this
Hegglog
Haskell datalog engine… hmmm
Hatafun
Lifting functions into the triejoin. Hmmm
Neel krish
Free logic
Mini blog posts as tweets
Infinite number of formula over finite prop vars. Inf vars seems powerful
Focussed or rooted graphs.

Wuantum computing. Atomic sustesm. Quantum control
So i could use a query planner to build a tree decomposition?
Atp for query containement. Is the homomorphism in the proof object?
A giant sql wuery into a color database can do graph coloring
Pcos
Artin group
Steinitz. Indenfityong face lattice is np hard?
Sphere identification undecidable?
Charlotte could just use hap
David joel hamkins logic of graphs
Wuery containment is semantic entailment for finite models
Rewrite rules as a proof method. Proof extraction as “fancy” extraction.
Completion proofs deriving the egraph
Weite hap annulus in higher inductive type
Dependent proving is the dependent well typed analog of building ordinary proof trees?
Congruence closure for a graph? More setoid like, no natural one fit all notion
Tree decomposition separates tree into hyperedges. Boundaries of
Hyperenode surrounds cut piece. It _is_ very similar to cateogotical combinators, but we can dynamically adjust the hypertree decomp
Subgraph iso is sql query, tree decomp is divide and conquer over all subgraph iso

Export lean c code and cofnirm using esbmc
Generator and collector of feynman diagrams. Generating functions?
Ask chloe jt about str
Isabelle as a solver
Datalong completion in coq. Hiw to prove negation?
Bratko resolution prover + indexing
Functors between finite categories
Categorical databases in asp? Finite catgeory scheme, data migrate
Subsumption + gas for controlling atp
Rebalancing tree decomposition
Sql as a tree decomposition solver
Pace comp
Sqlite for destructive graph rewriting
Treewidth vs
Open/ported automata. Compress as we go.
Seekingn minimal homomorphism into egraph of dag
Instruction selection as graph covering thing
Tree width as sat problem. All of them have papers
Fast automorphism finding. Heurisitc. For presolving. Synmettry breaking
Prolog nauty
Symmettry detection for fem. Symmettry suggestion (close to symmettric?) include the field type? A square is close to rotationallly symmettric
Approximate isomorphism detection
Can I compress a hyperegraph
Set datalog
Chatgpt as a socratic questioner. Tbeinformation is mostly in me, get chatgpt to draw it out
Better microphone?
Mermaid in blog
Query planning can be a modelled as graph. Automorphisms are sort of silly. This is the analog of symmetry breaking in csp. Perhaps a useful way to treat ac.
Query needs to be in tree decomp too
Spray
Smarter digit propagator in sqlite
Networkx to from sqlite
Sqlite categorical databases
Lambda egraph in eprover kb?
Good language for heuristics?
Extraction of “definitional” equalities
Open automata - incremental interning.
Caleb said model eclass as hyperedge. Hmm
Pattern graph, replacement graph.
Stg rewrites. Optimal lambda
Chemical rewrites
Category rewrites
Graph reduction sharing in term rewriting

Embedding catevories as graphs. Make “compose” nodes?
Union find compression as graph rewrite
Attach lean formalization to concepts
Maxro refold egraphs
Finitary float questions. Stability, equivalence to higher precision. Delta equality of properties. Fixed point translations. Nan and overflow
Ghidra to
could a neural network be a certificate? Sum if squares. Equal? Too hard. Guaranteed underapproximate is eaiser. Has to inject into some convex region. Weight times vrep

Integral windup
Sensor failure
Actuator failure
Cw complexes as trees?
Tv as second monitor?
Is an algbebrqic hierarchy a verification, synthesis, or constraint satisfaction problem?
Simd parser verification
Types as sets. Higher types are sets of sets. Hiit are natural from this perspective? Using higher types for modelling
Smiles ggl
Mentor. Sigplan?
Spectroscopy
Telescopes, spaces
Inaccessible cardinals. Grothendiesck
Doctor appointment
Sipser book
Hamkins book
Join semanitcs: return env
Cubical index is like bool but open?
f, R f x, z
Float in lean
Chemin arrow pushing book. Petri atom tracking leen lambers. Tableau graph methods. Cayley graph. Application conditions. Vsepr. Algorithmic cheminformatics. Molecurlargraphjl
Python stack left recursion
Cantor nat - (countseq bool) isn’t surfacrjective
Parse c macros to refold?
Turn off copilot
Do eager peg rvsdg rules. Even if we use standard egglog, useful graph lang
Vscode extension to vis rules
Can egraphs represent any graph?
Could i get destructive rewiritng into eggcc
Discrimination trie and generic join
Joins and efficient negation proofs. Giant inductives. Match ordering
Jit symbolic executor of angr.
Relational division in asp
Use concurrency support for program alignment? Locks. Weak memory models and bisimulation
Smt qemu just print the path condition
Int literals wconversion

Canonical structures in coq and hommorphosm problems. Can solving the diamond problem be an optimization problem? Instances are models/databases. more than one homomorphism is an issue. Finite instances of theories are interesting subcase. Obviously there are huge permutations available.
Canonical struct from known projection. Canonical structure is row oriented like sql, typeclass is entry oriented like dataloh
TReewidth and csp, we can also enumerate or count homomorphisms via dynamic programming
Bundled vs unblundled and query vs model check
Dafny examples
End and limit in graphs. Relation to catgeories?
Typing derivations are morphisms
System f, type evaluation and term typing tupled. Now that’s a catgeory
An axiom system for electrical induction

A type as a database table. Link between dependent types and categorical datavases
Schema. Queries,
Biology. Fission lise meitner. Chemistry.
Do halmos in knuckedragger
Cwf. Category logic over substitutions. Schematic derivations
Set families. Conservative extension.
Winskel set
Definition by recursion and inductive closure are both axiom schema definable
Substituon of two vars to 1
Category over substitutions because it is instantiations
Complain about promotion
Geberalized projections
Good videos list
Inventing. 3d print joints. Tensing rods
Eddy currents, electricity. Nmr, fusion,
Llvm mca combinatorial model. super optimizer
Acm chemical physics today
Smithsonian Atlantic
New york times
Princeton companion
Lkml gcc dev,
The perfect jacket
Functions with variables as category
Spin
Etcs in lean. Peano in lean. Lcf
Dimensional analysi
Units of measure
Xps molariry buffers
Nmr organic chemist
Tempo stable radical
Resonance
Running a column. Distlilled
Ftir

Itp with core numericals technology. Poly certificates, linear, resolution,
Pvs
Tabling
Lean model checking
Higher order unification examples for eprover
Animate graph rewriting
What is the cheapest system I can talk about the accuracy of truncated cosine in
Dedekind cuts are also specification axioms?
Real induction
Contraction as primitive
Lsp for cybersecurity?
Lsp for binaries?
Algebraic sets of polynomials smacks of godel encoding
Category of injections.
Adjunction/galois connection of projections. Formulas are sets. E projects,
Coordinate transformation. Coordinates of pairs. Hmm. If I map tuples of ints to ints. obviously it is coordinatized. Column oriented vs row. Or z morton ordering
Finite topoi, linear algebra as spaces, semialgebraic sets, convex? Interval, logical. Marshall style
Finset needs to carry a codomain
Move
Reals in the lcf style. Have to supply proof. Theory class owns them? Z3 reals are algebraic numbers? Contracting intervals are reals. Equality if mutually contracting

Lawrencville
Deluca
Shaydside
Squirrel hill
Conservatory
Incline
Warhol mattress
Gourmandine
Lawrenceville

Janaindea jain article
Physics books?
Style chile
Whiteboard

Proof kernels in python. Central storage. Immutable protected constrcturos
Crypto hashing
Deriving the reals from euclid. Or even rationals or nats. Equivalence class of segments?
A first classnotion of construction. Then iterate it. Hypothetical constructions.
Sets of polynomial equations representing functions. Inequality is represented as x = y + z^2
Interactive euclid. Z3 as engine or sympy?
Llvmlite alive? Llvmlite to egglog for thingy.
A construction vs a requirement. Hypothetical constructions. A notion of composition
Euclidean topos
The variables at play matters.
True is zero. Predicates are functions to R (?)
There is a subsotutioon category of vectors of polynomials
Datalog demand transformation preproces for asp
Preorder vs poset and the connected component egglog
Mocinski paper
Linear algebra for polynomial eq book
Walking desk treadmill
Baldurs gate
Physics podcast or whatever
Powerset is a functor (lifting of functions)
Asp compiler from llvm
Gr with cody?
One forms
Lean inhabited as theorem prover
First order logic in lean. Using names is ok
Minikanren in lean

Open automata and kleene expressions. Trees and graphs. Relooping cfg. Categorical combinators
Egglog performs the chase for catveorical databases. Cody says we are doing completion at the same time we are doing ground completion?
Try unix utils. Head is a good one
Return 3/4
Simple patching
Asp llvmlite
Xxd converts to hex. Make file with aligned disasm. Make change. Convert back
Multiset theory ought to reflect linear logic or something
Add segment to toy binary
Optimal function inlining
Numba rvsdg
Cbmc wasm. Tutorial video
Rust lcf
Shiva for qemu hacking
Axiom schema aren’t worse than rules really. Rules are indexed over theorems. schema over some other kind of metadata
Parsing is deduction
Take book snapshot chatgpt. Translate to python
Take all my meetings on walks
Metamatj proof carrying code. Make (implicit) axiom of binary data. Decoder as inference rules.
Semantics in zfc theory? Ebpf
Attribute section to annotate C code?
Weite up transition partner plans, 9 month plan
Compile as patchable put in extra space ahead of time. Put stuff in dynlibs. Mark access points as funcalls
Axiomatic special relativity
I guess nothing stops you from doing lean in metamath style. Maybe even with macros
Datalog to metamath
Drat to metamath
Congruence to metamath
Minikanren in prolog
Haskell model of locally carteisna closed/ context. A tuple that holds the type params? A type list of open type params. An arrow to a phantom type thing? Proxy. Why arrow to or from?
A presheaf is a generalizatiob of g-action
Use peano nat datatype for induction in smt
Z3 and probability. Hmmm.
Sets of polynomials is what i want. And maybe ideal closure?
Proof system of completion/unification in z3 python
Regularization in physics and machine learning
Get old docs in blog repo. Backdate string and montr carlo essay
Profound slacks
Car detailed
Boy jacket
Halloween costuem that says costume
Book that says word
Writebook?
Order groceries
Write book with deadline
Install linux
Catgeorical databases sqlite
C-set isomorphism using nauty
Cingrueince closure in metamath
Idris
Thinnings
Rvsdg from llvlite +
Write a book
Lambda metamath
Meson xavier course. Fitting. Dyckhoff
Laziness and union finds?
Typestate and dependently typed programmign
Tyed assembly for policy
Typed assembly in a section
Replit modus ponens
Deferred forksercer
Cbmc policy datalog policy chc policy
Dynlink in plugin, can I then hook a static function
A demo of bin2c + decomp. Enqueue dequeue
Zig
Chatgpt keyboard
Dynamic patching. Ptrace + int3
Or hooking main
Craig’s trick for propositional logic
Appell compiler to ocaml via chatgpt?
Database internals
Lululemon abc / warby
Car supercuts doctor
Afl for puzzles like n queens
Afl as stochastic optimizer
Bottom up ematching post
Breakpoint at main
Normal forms

Cooperative coroutining. Call vex interp with a point at which to stop (breakpoint). Or use concurrency
Prolog sets using clpb

Turn what was worth tweeting into a blog post. Just as a record for me. “Bites”
Paper and research mentorship talks
Litelog joss paper
Pre write C verifiers for binary paper
Incremental automata min
Homotopy agda tutorial
Csp based on category theory.
Schema as signature
Wildcard in egglog. Proving universal statements
Well scoped extraction. Context patterns. The prolog occurs check trick. Herbandization. A meta simulation of scoped fresh const. Useful for lambda unify?
Paulson book tactics
Traat translate
Translate taapl, xaiver notes to lean, fill out vex cases, pcode cases, multimodal inference rule image ti lean or prolog,

Beat game gear games
Pokemon app
Absorbent for carry
Graphs as representation
Pyres but add lisp / python interp
We can prove polymorphic a -> a function is idby direct proof search
Polymorphism needs uniform representation to implement. Types tags + strings instead of pointers
Vf2 in rust
Probablistic type system. Linear types and quantum. Paths? Scallop datalog? modus is bayes rule. Neural net to guess types. Mcts for proof search
Asp for bidirectional

Grobner + completion.
Polynomials with symbols vs constants
What about equations rather than. A set of equations implies another. Conservative extension without existential
Orient the egraph. Find all matches to rules
Hebrandization of thing to prove is the method.
Scoped extraction
Flatterm
Stringterm
Datalog in ebpf
Python verified compiler. Tree induction
Chatgpt to translate binary strings to another language. Hmm.
Auto translate on syscalls
Gpt for ebpf
Ffi for eprover
Van goordt trick
Choicepoints
Prolog as a term rewriting engine

Quotients are definable as a new sort
Inj(x)
Inj(x) = inj(y) <-> R(x,y)

Axiomatic theory of isomorphisms. Isomorphism classes

Art and mathematics. Mathematics is like drawing a door
Jmp
Voice lessons
A set of proven objects as mechism. Not named
Porti escondiyo. Oahacu. Mexico trip

Python partial eval to C
Catgeory theory prover. How do I support categorical abstractions. Functor etc
Write note conparing different rust choices.

Cut elimination for induction. If you ever prove a forall in order to use it on a concrete integer, you could hav unwound the proof

Sleigh in python
Generate assembly snippets to fuzz test bin2c
Get it released
C semantics to pcode semantics in lean
Formal model of the loader
Automated prover for gats?
Write quick blog post for tweet worthy stuff
Randomly pick seed on startup
Trust and check closing over db
Injection from nat as conservative extension
Glue in interval package?
Glue in stuff that tries to be sound
Hmm. Extend is analog of comprehension axiom
Use dwarf line info to manually inject into C file. Don’t need to parse
Instrument program to record trace
Enumerate functors using sqlite. Comp table
Check cat axioms
Check given functor
Its true. I’m not using anything out of networkx. An edges and nodes dict would be pretty good.
Sexpr parser and egglog

Born to burrow dachsund brand
Wiener pants wiener burrowin foot pajamas

Quantum group
Qemu symqemu
Graphical models

Float problems: numerical recipes, trefethen,

Plan trip
Respond to linkedin pe

Talk to people
Binary metadata white paper. Asplos ebpf compcert pcc tal tal link
A binary is a database. Migration. Git version control
Misconfiguration detection
Getting tree decomp from query explain
Attack associative
Metis egraph graph sharing. Dynamic treeify
Llvm parser to lang compiler
Scoped or terminating extraction
Egraph, datalog, or asp based python prover
Hoare proof in python
Vs code ghidra
Manual smt. Uninterp funcs as
Uninterp func as polynomial
Z3 is symexec
Bindiff
Dedukti python. Equational search?
Handwriting sudoku recognition. Overlapped sudoku.
John gregoire
Calc textbook
Fincat class. Complete, check.
Egglog uf
Egglog generatefinitely generated
Use python types as z3expr. Metaocaml code annotates

Enumerate terms
Using e for extraction?

Singing lessons
Idris agda haskell category zanzi
Butts(hole) on/for breakfast. A cat brand.
3d print stuff
Dynamic tree decompisition for hypergraphs
Nor malizing tree decomposition is term rewriting. Connection to algebraic graphs?
Auto translate from tptp to python script

Context aware tree decomposition. You don’t need to pick the decomp for dp agead pof time. Pick decomp based on current known solution
Direct real induction
Quaife
Networkx subgraphs

Mixed boolean talk to thomas. Angr + egglog
Simple python egglog
Python comprehesions as forall syntax
Ur resolution and anti facts. Datalog supports ur-resolution

Relational interpetation is fine for stlc. Dont need to go polymorphic
Implementation of integers varies etc.
Do we even need function types? Typed aexpr eval
Interpret term into theorem
Information in realations. Entropy
Unpaid time off
Do trip
Amanda present
Tickets to pitt
Clp py
Quantifier free
 Virus technology for gpl enforcement
Show ptch assembly but don’t do it
Eprover integrals
Unsat core
Inferext
Smtlib3 in python
Lambda free dependency types. First order

Look at unicorn and pandas fork. What did they edit?
Bap toolkit
Manufactoruong gmp cmo cdmo cro
Color theory for clothes makeup
Protein
Side group
Shiff base
George whitesides moelcular computing

Proof asistant egglog. Rules are protected (facts are null rules)
Combinator reduction using egraph mechanisms. Update greedy extraction as you go
Recexpr might make regions / callcc / delimcont easier
Schema with fix as the source of datalog mechanisms?
Dependent record in python holding proof objects?
Agda as a rewriting engine
Asp + dedukti = lambda dataloh
Asp + z3 simp = lanbda datalpg
Pcc lf datalog
“Tree semantics”? Im skeptical
Asp provenance, add cuts
Rtl egraph compile. Rtl translation verify. Calyx dahlia.
Eggglog cateogircal database
Egglog aimplicial set
Fork egglog?
Z3 hoas, lam Var -> term.
Skolemize as inferrence rule
Python twee. Dump the R J etc
Bash trust check

Chess
Games
Read book
Clean
Kettle bell

Add tap out at while loop top
Sqlite binary metadata
Decidion procedures for complex, fourier?

Write the paper first: metadata checking
Automated theorems proving for compilers
What is the vision we’re taking tiny steps towards
Tranlsate twee to lean
Aoc in lean from haskell
Make advanced anki
Dedukti constructive reals. Bolt numerics into the core?
Conservaitve extension principles, quotient types, nonstandard analyos, acl2 is pra
Dump proof to database, file, sqlite?

What would grandma do?
community
Volunteer
Opinions
Art - aesthete
Have taste
Make things good
Dress well. Sportscoats
I need to look into my weight
A second act
Glass blowing
Pottery

Amanda
Dinner
Trip
Glass blowing, color theory, firewood candle

How much money do i have?
Is str better
Ask quantum group whats up
Oshumori like will or whatever. People want, world needs, pay for, i want
Art kit for amandas house

Nuggets section
Autopost to mastodon
Differentiate egglog
Mini egglog in rust

Jewelry, tatoo, earring, lounge sweater
Knick knacks
Tight undies

Trail of bits
Steve
Draper lidar, intense man
Talk to kmett?
Zach
Cody
Leo de moura
Paul graham
J weiss
Chris
Bravenboer
Spj
Jhala
Raffi

What am I asking? What do you do? Do you like it? What should ai do? Do you have a job for me?
Mentor/tutor

Better call saul
Severance
Sopranos
Reservation dogs

Photoshop/illustrator
Glasses
Fun apps?
Godot

Judaism
Sunlamp
Take a month off?
Dinner amanda birthday

Do nz on my own
Wire cutter lamp
Quilting , knitting
Asp datalog jupyer tutorial video. Asp compiler
Convert blog to custom stuff. Get jupyter notebooks posting
Cbmc jupyter tutorial

Even ben can’t save me. I need to just do things
Hashing and homomorphism.
Fingerprints (invariants)
First order theory of ordinals
Algebraic hierarchy in itp python
Knuckledragger, an approach to itp in python
Nominal sets
Make a dict mapping every guy to a tree with the right things marked
Hashing mod permutation. Keep set of Marker variable trees. Nfreevars cost * 1 node. Repeating lots of info. Lazier compressed trees for varmaps, and a schema map
Donation
Uptrees, parent pointers. Context sharing is easy
Alpha egraph. Permutations. Alpha egglog. Tie break to smaller support
Niki case nutshell
Engineering blog
Directly model a n rgglog permutations
Dump all my notes into 2023 start fresh
Move old drafts into old drafts foldero
Hash consing modulo theories/symmettries
My own lo tech web anki. Chrome extension to save website + summary to file
 Nutcracker
Zoe does diagrams, explanations
Use python sunclassong for locales?
All terms extraction/enumeration for semgrep. (Random monte carlo extraction?) Equivalent but syntactically distinct
Take _back_ barltelby the scrivener. Refusal is power.
There is no point in being sad even more so than there is no point in being happy
Write pcode2c post first
Knuckledragger.jl

Gandy hyland. Fan functional. Realizability. Bar recursion. Partial but total functions via nonstandard
Nonstandard catgeory theory lets us throw away welltypedness and be more equational

Dynamorio frida
Fuzzing qemu
Qemu lua
Svg draw inline
Ipynb notebook plugin
Draw amanda or me in blockbench
Z3 acl2. Lang with quote.
Uncensored lit fed staryer stories

Unstrippable binaries
Z3 eudoxus. Dorect injection as n -> floor n r
How does hol light do algebraic hierarchies? Just ignores it?
A universe sort. Any. Tough to make sound
Sexp
Make injection into universal sort but then total unprojection. Z3 does this auto
Use metaprogramming to make an open datatype. Need to rerun everything
 Etworkx proof daf
Check functions in trust
Proof check function calls callbacks
Unsat core sanity and hyp min

If variables were instnatiated in practice statent, values are computed.
Pra for streaming reals
Pra and acl2, blame, dialectica
Quoting, macros, eval terminating and sound

Manifold and catgeory book
Baldurs gate cyberpunk
Unity solidworks

Pcode to high pcode
Klee
Enqueu. O0 mymin
Comparative verify pop count to naive
Harness test semantics in repo
Monitor sqotch
Donate button
Multipost to discord and slack

Define function in theory. Prove exsitential relation
Ordinal strength, can define ordinal?
Proof objects as a first order theory. We don’t ask what a “set” is really
Array programming with infinite arrays. Ordinals?
Ebpf seccomp
Digital marketing books
Aprover
Coherence
Fuzzing
Docket
Conway surreals in z3
Implemetayion defined modelled as parametric
Work at library?
Primitive proof objects
Facts are self evident
Gcd, sat, lp, dual lp.
Resolution proof
Reflect the proof db into z3…?
Dialectica and the extra provenance slot
A hypothetical index of proof
Long line
Selection functions in z3
Termination ertificates ebpf
Define fun rec instead of quantifiers?
Contraction. Infinite sums aren’t contracting. Intervals in knuckle
Todo: autocbmc button? Output reg name file/other scaffolding. Angr cli version. Enqueue, grab var data from decomp. High fun output, patch helpers, prop check, examine goto output, try cpa and uauto. Output invariants. Write the interpreter. A float function.
2 limits is somehow a 2w process
N + w ordinals is tuple quotiented to be equiv if second coord is non zero
Projection of a 2 arg function to an infinite boudary
Interchanging limits is sweeping a huge curve, which is non obvious
Hydra and hackenbusch. Trees and graphs

Wf pair, gosper.
Sums over finite sets

Python dependent records. Check instantiations of z3 theorems at init. Pvs?
Proof object inside z3 wpuld make it immutable. Hmm. Push pop
