---
author: philzook58
date: 2020-12-06
layout: post
title: "EGraphs Part III "
---

Dowke higher order unification mentions associativty as a problem like comprehension axioms.

Uniform type tagging vs inline type annotations is kind of like closure vs defunctionlaization
A uniform representation / a specliazed one. A closed world of constructors vs an open one.
Rust enums make the closed work convenient and fast.

Higher order equality reasoning. Equalities of equalities. Dijsktra style. Equality patterns.
Actually by adding equality nodes to every other node, we get equality patterns for free.
(eq(a, a)) but of course.
eq(x,y) => eq(z,w) but then we also need to propagate z = w downward into the graph. Hmm.
Mutiple kinds of equivalnce relations interacting?



EGraphs that are string rewriting.
Mark out EClass 1 as special markjer for empty string.

a memoizing trie? DAG trie. Double ended trie. Links going up and down.


Take the technique of my path post but add more concrete objects.
We do I need the types. I keep getting confused.
id_A != id_B. They need to be kept as distinct objects.

Note just because I'm using z3 "Function"s does not mean we are only discussing categories of functions. Z3 uninterpeted functions are pretty much a completely syntactical construct. Well, ok in a sense we are in that vbia a Yoneda embedding really they are natural transformations between HomSet functors.


Well, I could just keep generating new canonical types.

```python
def all_objects():
  a,b,c = "a","b","c"
  for i in range(n):
    # instantiate the laws for these news objects?

```

How are we going to denote otimes? At the symbol level?
otimes( F, G  ???
F and G are natural trasnformations and otimes is a thing that takes natural transformations returns a new natural transformation
otimes(F, G, FG)
otimes( hom(-,A), hom(-,B), hom(-,AB))
otimes( hom(-,A), hom(-,B)) -> hom(-, AB)

add in all the definitions of otimes, and it's axioms

The extra bits of GATs are sort of what is needed to throw into first order logic in order to make categorical constructions more elegant, in particular the partiality of compose (compose requires that morphisms meet on the same object)
Compose can be defined as a mere relation on morphisms in first order logic, but it is clunky. compose is typically a partial function, for which you'll need to enforce extra axioms to cut that subset out of relations. Extra axioms that you need to keep using over and over increases the complexity of both interactive and automatic proof. It is worht considering if there is a way to make something so fundamental baked into your reasoning system rather than just an axiom in the system. This is perhaps the entire study of logical reasoning systems baked in a nutshell. Want to study computation? Well maybe beta reduction should be baked in your reasoning system. Or maybe not. Worth trying.
A sufficiently flexible system can also build a raft of technqiues, encodings and lemmas that the underlying fundamental reasoning system is not particularly relevant.


a variable of sort "hom(-,A)" represents an morphisms that ends on (codomain is) A



How does z3 even encode types to it's egraph. The types and arity just become part of the function symbol?
Yeah, you could intern the whole thing. arity, string and types


2 tricks:
1. Using the morphisms ~ function. Associativty axioms replaced by function composition. 
2. Using Z3 sorts as objects
3. brute force object expansion.


Interesting example: two symbo0ls a b and they commute. Each element of this monoid is isopmorphic to just a pair of 
naturals.
Can we prover (2,2) + (2,2) = (4,4)?



Metatheories ability to canonicalzie dynamically might be very useful.




# A More Naive EGraph

I know that a significant fraction of Julians worship at the shrine of performance. This is not my default shrine. I still feel like most problems I encounter in my hobbies and work are limited by how difficult the are to phrase and solve even naively, and once that is done performance is 9 times out of 10 not an issue. If it is, then it is time to tweak and reconsider. This is of course informed by my problem domains, that I'm rarely trying to build libraries for others, and the fact that I leverage a massive, mind boggling raft of tools built by people who are deeply concerned about such things, and, uncharitably, that my work does not matter to anyone.



Alessandro Cheli (who is a dynamo of energy) has been building a package called Metatheory.jl, which includes a more feature complete and optimized egraph implementation written in Julia than the one I've described in my blog posts. In addition, my understanding is he's trying to take homoiconicity seriously.

So the version of egraph I'm about to describe to you is not my recommended one, unless you're in a time crunch maybe. Nevertheless, because of it's simplcity, I think there is more conceptual clarity to it.








Or flip something out of the trie to put it in the egraph.


https://taliasplse.wordpress.com/2020/02/02/automating-transport-with-univalent-e-graphs/ 
Talia had a blog post?

Egraph notebook from allssadro

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1tNOQijJqe5tw-Pk9iqd6HHb2abC5aRid?usp=sharing#scrollTo=zikCWjHH14YH

Ed Yang's egraph in python 
https://twitter.com/ezyang/status/1340507843292770306?s=20
https://gist.github.com/ezyang/c3db0e55a7661998c8a66ea8619f1081

Struct
head:
args:
end
 curried in maps.

Term => EClass becomes
Head => (Args => EClass)

What happens if two args becomes unified?
Is that a problem to keep them seperate?


It's kind of nice to not key on something changing under our feet.
It's not so nice that we can't resolve args without checking into the
intdisjointset
Using straight up pointers we could be pretty fast.
No. It's hard to make an indexing structure that respects the equivalence relation

If i used fixed size tuples in an array, 
Then it could be pretty fast in a certain sense.

Dict{:Symbol, Array{  Tuples{Args, Class}  }}

The product equiavlanece class? Yes.


merge(E,E) = just append arrays
normalize(  ) = for each symbol
        double loop check? Insufficient since we merge classes
        if we get a match .

Wait. That normalization is congurence colsure?
If all the arguments are equiavlanet, then the terms itself is equivalent.

0, unary and binary can get you pretty far. Maybe everywhere
With precompilation

struct Egraph
unionfind :: IntDisjointSet
constants :: Dict{Symbol, Vector{ Int64 }}} # IntSet?
unary:: Dict{Symbol, Vector{ Tuple{ Int64, Int64  }  }}
binary:: Dict{Symbol, Vector{ Tuple{ Int64, Int64  }  }}

abtriary?::Dict{ (Symbol,arity Int64)   , Array{Int64, 2}}}
parent_sym?:: Dict{Term, :Symbol}

end


Could keep the vectors weakly sorted?




Metatheroy.jl and alessandro
Matchcore
He's using Expr. Fine. I still don't really see how 
RuntimeGeneratedFunctions.jl
The world age problem - modality?


Perhaps a mistake was trying to match catlab syntax as much as possible
From haskell, I know many type parameters are inferrable.
Inferrable data in some sense should be kept out of the syntax tree. They just gum it up.
I got bit exactly by this when working with a theorem prover whose mechanism was out of my control
Forward reasoning on forall id(A).f => f because it could instantive f with a nonsenical type unless guarded.
I still can't hel but feel my original opinion in my first pose was essentially correct

Catlab annotates more than Haskell does, but it is not fully annotated either
It relies on type inferrence
We could add perhaps inferable annotations to catlab.
We also want a de-elaboration for the rewrite system?
Stupid algo: try to remove parameter, run inferrance. If it comes back something?

I feel like we don't need types. The rewrite rules respect the typing. Preservation.




id(A) the A is unnecassary. there is always an id that works.
Unification

If the translation from Catlab is nontrivial and not general purpose for all GATs, that takes a lot of bite out of working in julia in the first place. I might as well just stick to native rust.




A special patern for assocaitve rules.
Have rerwite rule comp/2( A comp/2(B,C)) => comp/3( A,B,C) # normalizaes associativty


Allow matching for neighboring positions in term
comp/n(... ,  X,Y, ... ) => 


2 obvious tasks
Make pattern matching fast
actually try to apply to catlab or some other domain?


http://taktoa.me/eqsat/Thesis.pdf remy gldschmit's bachleor's eqsat
https://gist.github.com/ezyang/c3db0e55a7661998c8a66ea8619f1081 yang python egg



In an application where we are trying to do equational reasoning, we have some pile of universally quantified equations like $\forall x. x + zero = x$ .
The e-graph is storing ground terms, ones that do not represent a universal quantification. The e-graph stores the fact $seven + zero = seven$ and $two + zero = two$ separately even though these are instantiations of the same underlying fact.

A natural approach to equational rewriting is to turn your equations into rewrite rules, which are a related but distinct thing. Rewrite rules pattern match a left hand side and replace it with a right hand side. 
Rewrite rules have an asymmetric flavor between the right and left hand side, whereas equality is more symmetric.
Applications of rewrite rules do no necessarily commute. Applying rule 1 and then rule 2 is not necessarily the same as applying 2 then 1.
One can then apply in some order the rewrite rules, hoping for the best, or maintain a set of all terms reachable.


SymbolicUtils arranges its matchers to take an expression, a dictionary of already known bindings, and a callback function that takes a new dictionary and the number of elements matched. Here's a snippet from the library for comparison.

[link](https://github.com/JuliaSymbolics/SymbolicUtils.jl/blob/cd18c76fd09078c38393b398e681329f257ecfe8/src/matchers.jl#L1)
```julia

#### Pattern matching
### Matching procedures
# A matcher is a function which takes 3 arguments
# 1. Expression
# 2. Dictionary
# 3. Callback: takes arguments Dictionary × Number of elements matched
#
function matcher(val::Any)
    function literal_matcher(next, data, bindings)
        islist(data) && isequal(car(data), val) ? next(bindings, 1) : nothing
    end
end
```


Related Libs:
* SymbolicUtils
* Match.jl
* MLStyle.jl

Make egraph generic like egg by implementing in terms of a children and istree function.
Kind of how symbiolic utils does it.

end

generic egraph over anything that implements istree yada yada. call getchildren(::T) rather than .args
children!() tpo update children
children
Basically converts it to


$\forall x. x + zero = x$ becomes 

The equations that produce these equivalences

In application to finding new rewrites, we need to be adding new equalities to the EGraph.





Duality
If you reverse all edges, DAGs remain DAGs.
Unification propagates downwards
Congruence closure propagates upwards

What if we reversed the dag and hash consed all the parents? How similar would congruence closure look like to unifacation

Hashcons Ids vs union find ids. "Fundamental" indirections. The catlab people have convinced me that there is some fundamaenetal character to the indirection that occurs via foreign keys inb databases. So should we too consider there to be a fundamental character to the Ids?
memo :: f(Id) -> Id. Set of endofunctors f on Id? 
A unification relation ~ ( term(x) , otherterm(x) ) . The signatures of the two don't have to match, but the variable sets do. Whereas the opposite is true of composition.
 f Id  <-  Id  ->  g Id  ~~~~ g Id2 <- Id2 -> h Id2.
 Pullback gives Id3 and equivalence set of Id1 Id2.
  Maybe consider the hash cons version?   Id <- Id -> Id
  the met parts perform union [ 2,6,8,1]   [2,5,7,9,5,3]
  No it makes more sense going the other way.
    Stuff -> EquivClas <- Stuff   union find
    [1 ,4,5]   
    Then 
function compose_cospan(f,g)
   unionfind = IntDisjointSet( max(f.apex, g.apex))
   for (x,y) in zip( f.right, g.left)
     merge(x,y) 
    end
    newleft = find_root.( f.left)
    NEWRIGHT = find_root(g.right)
    # maybe a normalization step to return to a range 1..Nequiv_class
    CoSpan( newapex, newleft, newright )
end

It does seem like this makes sense. I dunno what you do with it.
I mean, a pushout _is_ union right?
This is in catlab under colimit.
Does this suggest that maybe I should be implementing EGraphs as a CSet?
There is this complicated schema of Equiavlanece nodes and hash Ids.
    [1,56,7,8,  ] 


EGraphs as a CSet
objects:
EClass
FunHash

morphisms:
1 per function symbol
Maybe functors? Takes multiples EClass

congruence closure does feel like some kind of universal property. It's the largest relation under something

If function symbols are morphisms,
then They can be represented as n-d arrays on the available equaivlance classes.
It avoids the need for a hashmap. At the great expense of being able to be less lazy?
We need like a lazy sparse array. That uses 0 to denote uncomputed.
But a hash table is a lazy sparse array
I guess we could have 1 hash per function symbol. Since we always know the head.
Yea, these forms don't seem useful, but it's an interesting persepctive.

A data structure is a lot like a database

I guess the other interesting takeway that one might have is the other direwction
A hashmap can be like an avluator. memo[ f x y z ] = result.
memo[f x y z] ~ curry ~ memo[f][x y z]
So we don't have to make the correspondence morphism = array

So, where to next?
3 roads.

- implemente pattern matching in z3py
- implement pattern matching in julia
- bind to egg

Egg reference the Z3 macthing paper nad the simplify matching paper
"
E-graphs and E-matching. E-graph were originally proposed several decades ago as an efficient
data structure for maintaining congruence closure [Kozen 1977; Nelson 1980; Nelson and Oppen
1980]. E-graphs continue to be a critical component in successful SMT solvers where they are
used for combining satisfiability theories by sharing equality information [De Moura and Bjørner
2008]. A key difference between past implementations of e-graphs and egg’s e-graph is our novel
rebuilding algorithm that maintains invariants only at certain critical points (Section 3). This makes
egg more efficient for the purpose of equality saturation. egg implements the pattern compilation
strategy introduced by de Moura et al. [de Moura and Bjørner 2007] that is used in state of the art
theorem provers [De Moura and Bjørner 2008]. Some provers [De Moura and Bjørner 2008; Detlefs
et al. 2005] propose optimizations like mod-time, pattern-element and inverted-path-index to find
new terms and relevant patterns for matching, and avoid redundant matches. So far, we have found
egg to be faster than several prior e-graph implementations even without these optimizations.
They are, however, compatible with egg’s design and could be explored in the future. Another key
difference is egg’s powerful e-class analysis abstraction and flexible interface. They empower the
programmer to easily leverage e-graphs for problems involving complex semantic reasoning
"

Term Indexing - Chapter 26 of the Handbook of Automated Reasoning
Data strucures - 
 - Trees or dags. Aggressive sharing vs hash cons. Nelson Oppejn 1980
 - Flatterms. flatten out tree into preoder traversal. Possilby with skip pointer
  - Prolog terms


  - automata based
  - Code trees 


String based indexing - idea: convert patterns into approximate string matching pattern

position sdtrings. We can lay out the terms in some sequence, let's say a preorder traversal. In addition can annotate with positions
This does actually remind me of Code2Vec

https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/3-540-62950-5_59 shostak congurence as a completion algorithm

https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/krml253.pdf - leino pit claudel

It seems like having a slow but interpretable e matcher would be helpful. 


bjorner and de moura good ematching
prolog - warren machine
Avbstract machine
 pc - current instruction ? weird.
 reg[] - storing ground terms
 bstack - backtracking

```haskell
type Symbol = String
data Machine = 
  | Init Symbol Machine
  | Bind Int Symbol 

data State = State {pc :: Int, bstack :: [Machine] , reg :: [Term] }

cont (Init m) = m

run :: Machine -> State -> State
run (Init f ) { r = [Term f args]   } = s { reg = args  }

```



code trees


Path indexing