---
author: philzook58
comments: true
date: 2020-03-14 18:01:54+00:00
layout: post
link: https://www.philipzucker.com/?p=675
published: false
slug: Legendre Transformation and Ray Scattering. Geometrical Optics.
title: Legendre Transformation and Ray Scattering. Geometrical Optics.
wordpress_id: 675
---




I got a little interest when I was pushing the connection between integration/summation and minimization. I suggested this connection is well known in physics as the steepest descent approximation/ stationary phase approximation. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_steepest_descent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_steepest_descent)













$latex \int e^{-f(x)}dx \approx e^{- min_x f(x)}$ 







Or perhaps more precisely $latex \ln \int e^{-f(x)}dx \approx - min_x f(x)$ 







For an exponential integral, small changes in f reduce the value so fast that the integral is often dominated completely by the minimum position of f.







This can be turned into a refinable approximation by expanding the taylor series around the minimum point $latex x_0$ . $latex f(x) \approx f(x_0) +(x - x_0) f'(x_0) + (x - x_0)^2/2 f''(x_0) + R(x)$







$latex f'(x_0)$ is 0 because we are at a minimum position.







$latex \int e^{-f(x)}dx \approx e^{f(x_0)}\int e^{- (x-x_0)^2 f''(x_0)/2 + R(x)}$







Then expand $latex e^{R(x)} = (a + b(x-x_0) + c(x-x_0)^2 + ...$ into a power series turning the integral into







$latex  \approx e^{f(x_0)}\int  (a + b(x-x_0) + c(x-x_0)^2 + ...)e^{- (x-x_0)^2 f''(x_0)/2}$ which can be evaluated by the methods of gaussian integration. See Morse and Feshbach for more







Stationary phase is similar, except the idea there is that the place where the phase is changing slowest in a wave is where the most constructive interference occurs, and hence is the dominant factor. Mathematically, one turns to the techniques of contour integration, for which this oscillatory integral can be converted to a decaying integral by pushing around the contour.







If there are multiple important minimum  to f, as is possible in a nonconvex function, then we need to find all these minima for our approximation. This is actually really important and interesting. This is one simplified mathematical perspective of many non perturbative phenomenon that occur in quantum field theory and statistical mechanics where such integrals occur. 







Another example is that the Feynman path integral in quantum mechanics becomes the classical principle of least action when you take the stationary phase approximation.







This is related to the concept of the softmax operation. $latex x \circplus y = \ln (e^x + e^y). If x is a decent amount larger than y, then it dominates the sum.







Tropical Algebra







The Fourier transform method of scattering is really really useful. It comes from the first born approximation and says that for a weak potential V the scattering amplitude is given by







$latex f(q) \approx Fourier[V(x)]$







where $latex q = \Delta k$ the momentum exchange aka the wavevector difference of the incoming and outgoing wave.







The born approximation comes from a perturbation expansion of the wave  or schrodinger equation. It starts with the unperturbed problem of a wave in free space, for which oscillating exponentials $latex e^{ikx i - i \omega t}$ are solutions.  







Scattering off of gaussians. The fourier transform of a gaussian is available in closed form. 







Classical geometrical optics scattering is also an interesting problem. I point to the scattering of rays off of convex shapes as an interesting subproblem because it is simpler. A convex shape can only have a single bounce off of it, where as a non convex shape, like two spheres, might have multiple bounces off of the them before the ray escapes off to infinity. It is actually very easy to reconstruct a convex shape from input output rays pairs. We can trace the rays to see where they interesected. This gives us a position on the unknown shape. In addition, the vector difference of the rays gives a vector normal to the surface at this point. 







We can construct an inner approxmation to the shape by taking the convex hull of all the scattering points, and outer approximation to the shape by intersecting all the halfspaces generated by the calculated normals.







The Legendre transformation is a very strange beast and it gives students of physics conniptions. This is because it is usually presented in its most ugly and contorted form. The Legendre transformation at its geometrical core is stating that a convex shape is equally described by the union of all its points and by the intersection of all the halfspaces that contain the shape. If you then so choose to coordinatize your shape as the graph of a function, and coordinatize lines by their intersection with the y axis and slope, you get the Legendre transform as often stated.







$latex y >= f(x)$







$latex y >= m x + b$













Geometrical optics is a pretty interesting topic.







Back in the day, physics was way more geometrical. All of math was. Newton wrote Principia in a style reminiscent of Euclid's Elements







Huygens principle is the idea that every 







Elm-Eikonal, and Sol Lewitt







You can describe surfaces as the implicit solutions to equations. For some reason in physics, we get more used to describing surfaces via a parametrization. You build up a parametrization, you cut out an implcitization. The number of parameters is the dimensionality of the geometrical object. The D - # of constraints is the dimension of an implicit object. It is perhaps somewhat . This is inherited from general relativity where in the standard picture we do not conceive of 4-d spacetime as being embedded in any particular higher dimensional space. We prefer to work intrinsically to the surface.







This is connected to wave optics. Roughly we are thinking about an approximate solutiuon of the wav equation of the form $latex e^{iS(x) i \omega t}$., We can pick a constant surface of S(x). 







The propagator for the wave equation is $G(x,x') =$. Doing this integral can be approximated using the method of stationary phase. This turns removing a variable with an integral into an approximate removing of a variable by geometrical projection. 







You can spin some bullshit about how you can drop terms you don't want because such and such is small. But really, geometrical optics works.. So does wave optics. And I just want a pluasible reaosn to show that they are connected.







Method of stationary phase.







### 12/2018 and probably older






The Fourier transform method of scattering is really really useful. It comes from the first born approximation and says that for a weak potential V the scattering amplitude is given by




$latex f(q) =F[V(x)]$




where $latex q = \Delta k$ the momentum exchange aka the wavevector difference of the incoming and outgoing wave.




Upon the wavelength growing much much smaller than the features sizes of the pertinent objects, quantum mechanics gives way (is well approximated by) classical mechanics or wave optics is well approximated by ray optics.




Schrodinger's equation becomes the Hamilton Jacobi equation or the wave equation becomes the Eikonal equation.




This is approached using the method of steepest descent or stationary phase. This allows a highly oscillatory integral that is involved in the propagator to be evaluated by just using the minimizing path of phase. This is then the principle of least action or Fermat's principle.




The Legendre transform at a geometrical level transforms a curve into the family of it's tangent planes (a somewhat unfamiliar idea to many. It makes sense from the projective perspective ). The reverse transform is taking the envelope of this family (again an operation that will be unfamiliar to many. When you see an envelope it will look right though).  It corresponds to the Fourier transform under the method of stationary phase, which breaks up a wave into planar waves.




Huygens Principle in the original geometrical form was that a wavefront is made of the envelope of the circular wavefronts emanating from every point of the original wavefront.




Yes, the input and output rays, intersect at a point. This point defines a plane with a normal that is in between the two rays or $latex q_1 - q_2 $. Since the reflection process is $latex q_2 = q_1 - 2 (q_1 \cdot n) n $.




There is a much simpler reconstruction. Given a point and if you want to know if it is inside or outside the object, just evaluate the sign on all the the scattering planes.




This works for convex objects only. But allowing nonconvexity allows crazy multiple scattering and this is probably not such a nice problem. It is evocative of the first Born approximation which is similar to a single scattering event leading the the Fourier transform method.




 




That leads us to a new question:




Can we used fancier tools to achieve this?




Mixed Integer Programming or Perhaps some ki




 




Other kinds of scattering and tomography:




Measuring the integral of absoroption along rays is kind of how cat scans work




One would consdier particles going into smooth potentials and meauring the time it takes to come out in addition to angle




Digital tomography problems like Picross.




 




Ray tracing (intersection of a ray with a polytope) can be formulated as an LP.




The convex hull of incoming and outgoing ray intersection is a good approximation of the scattering surface if we know it is convex.




Another interesting method is the describe the surface as an implicit function $latex \phi(x,y)=\sum a_i f_i(x,y)$. Then we can use samples at the scattering points. $latex \phi(x_j,y_j)=0$. In addition, we can force the gradient to match the normal at these points. $latex \nabla phi = \lambda (n_1 - n_2) $ where $latex \lambda \ge 0$.  We may choose to soften these constraints to a cost function if we anticipate perhaps some noisiness. All of this is linear in the coeffiicients, which is quite nice. This surface can be non convex, and also even unconnected.




To lift this to a dynamical V(x,y) seems much tougher. Trajectory optimization is one approach, but is quite non linear. We need to plug in the trajectory variables into the potential function.




Shooting Method seems easier. Restrict ourselves to just estimating coefficients g to start.




Born style impulse approximation? (perturbation theory in weak potential). Or very fast particle approximation. Is barely shifted. We have change in momentum (which is the same as change in angle for elastic potentials.)




$latex \int F(x(t))dt = \Delta p$




This is a linear constraint if F(x) is a linear combination of basis functions.




We can turn this into a shooting method by then simulating the path of the trajectory according to the solved potential and iterating. This is a plausible heuristic method. (It's some kind of local search.) We could also start with some sort of prior potential, like a hard ball model.




Applications of SOS poly minimization, or homotopy method? Make up fake track of outgoing particle data as turn on pertubation. Starts as straight line.




Multiparticle scattering




Renormalization schemes? Split out higher order detail coefficients. Solve first (using heuristic local descent method?).




 




 




 
