

Stratification tricks:
Explicit level variable n. In principle this might be enough already to allow negation.


https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02368946/document - A Proof-Theoretic Approach to Certifying Skolemization
The Skolemization of existential quantifiers in intuitionistic logic
https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.01483 A Survey of the Proof-Theoretic Foundations of Logic Programming

Consider submitting to the TPTP competition for UEQ. I think this is for equational reasoning


I've been making somewhat small from the outside but painful adjustments to the structure of egglog. The initial pass of egglog was basically just a frontend shellac over egg itself + some useful combinators for Searchers and Appliers. This is still true in the sense that egg is the workhorse engine, but more and more interesting things are happening in the egglog layer. 

- I added a new sort of declaration and query type with ML-y flavor logical syntax. This is because I want to have more logical connectives than is natural in a pure prolog variant. While the prolog syntax is very operationally oriented, I will take liberties. Currently while the language parses, only the subset that corresponds to horn clauses will currently work without panicking. While I currenlty basically just pattern match exactly the logical patterns I currently support, I'm trying to design this mechanism in a more principled way. Eventually I hope to support a lot more nesting of exists, forall, and implication and add a mechanism for exists-unique quantification. Exists can be supported in some positions via a "compile" time fresh symbol generation and skolemization. Nesting of connectives may require internalizing rules into the egraph database in some sense, or by having periodic rule generation passes after egraph saturation timeout or finishing. All of these features should hopefully make the statement of mathematical properties more clear.
- I started using cram for my tests. It's fantastic. What it does is record standard out and compare to previous runs, so I can see if something changed in them. When you run in interactive mode it asks if you want to accept the new output.
- Fixed the old parser to deal with whitespace better
- Plugged in egg's new proof production mode. This only works for rewrite queries. I don't currently record or reconstruct the proof trees resulting from the egglog clauses. WIP.

The new parser is more complex than the old one, mostly because I wanted to have infix logical connectives with precedence. I found the explanation


https://matklad.github.io/2020/04/13/simple-but-powerful-pratt-parsing.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operator-precedence_parser

magic set transformation - turns backward chaining to forward?

Diamond problem 
- get exampels folder onto wasm. If I could just import the category library that'd be killer
Is there a nice embedded prolog I could use?
Outputting rust code. look into rust codegen. We could collect symarty and print the raw egg generated code
An interpreter for the SearcherFormula and ApplierFormul;a type.
We've talked about light backchaining
Get gensym plugged in with negation suppression
Some foralls might be expressible using the lemma chaining facility? Add |- as a feature in regular egglog

I'm worried that I'm going to find something where a persistent egraph will be useful.

https://github.com/ekzhang/crepe
datafrog
chalk
scryer


So I should just write the single layer version

Support exactly this
(forall vs,?) (exists? atom (/\ atom)* ->)? (exists[!] qs,)? atom (/\ atom)* 
|- forall xs, exists(!)? qs, atom (/\ atom)* -> atom
// can I support alternating forall exists?
|- forall xs, atom (/\ atom)* -> exists(!)? qs, atom

|- forall vs, formula -> exists, atom
I need to perform checks whether found results contain certain freshened variables if I allow exists outside the forall.
But let's just do the one that 


parse_axiom(f)
match f {
    ForAll(vs, e) -> parse_impl(vs, e)
    _ -> parse_impl(vec![], )
}
fn parse_impl(patvars, f){
    match f {
        Impl(hyp, conc),
        _ -> 

    }
}
match let 

parse_axiom(&mut prog, f) {
    // peel off outer forall
    let patvars, f = if let ForAll(vs, e) = f {
        vs, e
    } else {
        vec![], f
    }
    // peel of hypotheses
    let hyps,concs = if let Imp(hyp,concs) = f {
        hyps,concs
    } else {
        vec![], f
    }
   // Check if we need to skolemize some stuff 
   let evars, concs, unique_flag = match concs {
   Exists(evars, concs) -> evars, concs
   ExistsUnique(evarts,conc) ->
   _ ->  
}   
// build searcher out of hyps
let searcher = if let Conj() = hyps { maybe searcher_of_conj call recursively?

} else {

}

// Make fresh symbols and apply them to all variables in forall scope.
// Then replace.
let skolem_map = // use user unavailable prefix.


if unique_flag {
   // construct uniqueness clause from pieces.
}

let applier = concs
}






fn interp_goal(prog, ){
    let mut prog = prog.clone();
    ForAll(vs, f) => freshen_formula(vs,f)
    patvars, goal = Exists(vs,goal)
    let goal = Impl(hyp, concs) => {
        interp_formula(prog, hyp); // No longer mutually recusrive so is fine.
    }
    let goal = conj_searcher(   )
    run_prog(prog)
}


Do like souffle does and replace my include directive with `mcpp`


## Constrained Horn Clauses
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/nbjorner-yurifest.pdf
block1(Var1,Var2,Var3) :- block2() , , 
I can do CHC with equality.

Forward chaining vs backwards chaining - going up from the reachability position or coming down from the top.
Both seem reasonable.
Hoare logic as horn clauses?
{A} S ; T {C} :- {A} S {B}, B < B', {B'} T { C}
{wp(S,P)} S {P} :- S{P}


## Categroical databases

C-sets in egglog
J is functor from D to Set (let's say finset?)
type(f) = D(x,y) // schema
type(j( f )) = set(set1,set2)
type()

datalog style: represented a set in this way:
table(x,y,z).
table(foo,bar,biz).

Is table mapped from an... object?
And the arrays are like projections?
tab2(X,Y) :- table(X,Y,Z).



The translation from first order functional data is always a pain
If I want to talk about j as a morphism now, it require explicit reflection
apply(j,X) <-> j(X).











## The chase.
https://www.categoricaldata.net/cql/fmc.pdf
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221559652_The_chase_revisited
Chase engines - benchmarking the chase
embedded dependencies
"The chase takes a set of formulae F in
a subset of first-order logic known to logicians as existential Horn logic [10], to
category theorists as regular logic [20], to database theorists as embedded dependencies [10], and to topologists as lifting problems [25], and constructs an F-model
chaseF (I) that is weakly initial among other such “F-repairs” of I."
https://golem.ph.utexas.edu/category/2019/08/graphical_regular_logic.html regular logic


I've been tinkering along havin a grand ole time.

- Made Multipatterns generic
- Used clap to make the cli
- Used rustyline to add in a basic repl
- Added include directives for multiple files
- Experimented more


I've returned to the more equational axiomatization of 

- The proof production in principle will give you a method by which to untangle the knot. A method to entangle a knot is the most obvious form of proof of unknottedness.
- A module system? I need something compile time to organize things. Macros, modules, proof scripts? Something.

A scoped notion of rules in play. 

module Flump
    
end

module Floop
    include Flump  // use rules locally and include.
    open Flump // use rules locally, but do not include
end

module
    axiom1
    axiom2
    |- somerule // added into rule set after being verified.
    |- somerule // added into rule set after being verified. Cache?
end

module MyAxioms
   succ(plus(X,Y)) <- plus(succ(X), Y). // other direction is injection?
   X <- plus(zero,X).
end

module DerivedLemmas
    open MyAxioms
    |-
    |- 
end

Section Floop : alternative name/keyword coq inspired. Although coq has modules too.


When is imperative execution ordering

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352220815001509#fg0010

Egglog 3 - Untangling an Unknot with Category Theory